# 10. How to advertise foreign travel

Paginas: 204-217

I
10
How to advertise foreign travel
am supposed to be the Grand Panjandrum of travel advertising,
because of my campaigns for Come to Britain, Come to France,
Come to the United States, and Come to Puerto Rico. I have also
done advertising for various carriers, including Cunard, P&O and
KLM. And for American Express, who provide the ɹnancial oil that
keeps international travel going.
When you undertake to advertise a foreign country, you have to
be prepared for a lot of political ɻak. Research told me that what
American tourists most wanted to see in Britain was history and
tradition – Westminster Abbey, the Tower of London, Changing the
Guard at Buckingham Palace, Oxford, that kind of thing. So that is
what I featured in the advertisements, only to be slaughtered in the
British press for projecting an image of a country living in the past.
Why did I not project a progressive industrial society? Why did I not
feature the nuclear power stations which the British had just
invented? Because our research had shown that American tourists
had no desire to see such things, that’s why.
When our campaign started, Britain was the ɹfth most visited
European country among American tourists. Today it is ɹrst.
Not long ago, a Labour Government decreed that the ‘Come to
Britain’ advertisements should feature only those areas of Britain
which were economically depressed, the idea being that foreign
tourists would cure unemployment. I had to point out that
Birmingham, Liverpool and Wigan could not compete with Venice,
Paris and Amsterdam.
When we started advertising the United States in Europe, we used
research to ɹnd out what the Europeans would most like to see. The

answer was Manhattan, Grand Canyon, San Francisco, Niagara Falls
and cowboys. So these were the attractions we featured in the
advertisements – until the US Travel Service instructed us to feature
scenes of South Dakota. One of the Senators from that State was on
the Senate Committee which voted the advertising budget.
When we took over the French Government’s tourism advertising
in the United States, the French politician who was our client was
not on speaking terms with the brilliant cabinet minister who was
his boss, and we got caught in the middle.
For 24 countries, foreign tourists represent one of the three
biggest sources of foreign exchange, but the majority of foreign
governments fail to give their departments of tourism enough
money to advertise. This is true of Germany, Italy, Holland, Spain,
Belgium, Scandinavia and scores of others. The exceptions are
Canada, Britain, Greece, Ireland and some of the Caribbean islands.
For a few years Congress voted a niggardly appropriation for the US
Travel Service, but before long even that dried up.
Sometimes you will ɹnd it advisable to change the image of the
country you advertise. My beloved Puerto Rico had the most
unfortunate image of all. Research revealed that Americans who had
never been there believed it to be dirty, ugly and squalid. When our
advertisements showed it as it really is, beautiful and romantic, the
tourists arrived in droves.

When you advertise countries which are little known, it pays to give the reader a lot of speciɹc information – as in this
newspaper ad for Singapore.
Click here for hi-res image.
While most advertising for countries should be designed to plant a
long-term image in the reader’s mind, there are occasions when it can
be used ad hoc, to solve temporary problems. In 1974 American
newspapers were full of reports of shortages of electricity in Britain,
enough to discourage Americans who did not relish spending their
vacation in the dark. The end of the shortage was not reported in
the press, but it was announced in our advertisements, and research
showed a satisfactory decrease in anxiety among prospective
visitors. At another period it was learned from research that
Americans were concerned about high prices in Britain. This was
met by advertising the actual prices of hotels and restaurants.

One of a series for the Peruvian airline, Faucett. They pulled 20,000 requests for a brochure oʃered at the end of the copy.

When American tourists got worried about high prices in Britain, this newspaper ad published some actual prices.

In 1974 American tourists were discouraged from visiting Britain by newspaper reports of an acute shortage of electricity.
This ad announced the end of the shortage.

When you advertise a foreign country, illustrate things that are unique to that country. This marvelous copy was written by
Bob Marshall.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Perhaps the most important factor in the success of tourism
advertising is the subjects you choose to illustrate. My advice is to
choose things that are unique to the country concerned. People
don’t go half the way round the world to see things they can equally
well see at home. If you want to persuade the Swiss to visit the
United States, don’t advertise ski resorts. If you want Frenchmen,
don’t advertise American food.

Some countries are afraid that foreign tourists will mess up their
cultural environment. Some years ago a prayer was read from the
pulpit in every church in Greece, asking the Almighty to spare the
Greeks from the ‘scourge’ of foreign tourism. When I was in Crete
not long ago, it was obvious that this prayer had not been answered.
Bermuda, which might easily have been turned into another Miami
Beach, has had the wisdom to aim its advertising at the kind of
Americans they would like to have.

Research revealed that American visitors to Britain wanted to see Westminster Abbey and other historical buildings more than
anything else. This powerful advertisement was written by my former partner, Cliʃord Field.
Click here for hi-res image and text.

Bermuda advertises scenes designed to appeal to the kind of visitors it wants.

The biggest obstacle to tourism in Puerto Rico was its image. Research showed that people believed it to be the dirtiest,
poorest, most squalid island in the Caribbean. Nothing could have been further from the truth, and this I demonstrated in
advertisements. Tourism increased by leaps and bounds.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Most people who travel abroad have had at least a smattering of
college education and are unashamed culture-vultures – especially
the wives. When they go to Europe, they collect museums,
cathedrals, chateaux and so on. An exception was the Texan who
told me: ‘The tour operator had us spend two days in Venice. What is
there to see in Venice? When you’ve seen the glass factory, there
isn’t anything else.’ A friend of mine was reluctantly persuaded by
his family to visit cathedrals all over Europe. A few days after his
return to Minneapolis, he felt it his duty to show me his own
cathedral. ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘we have the damn things here too.’
People dream about visiting foreign countries. The job of your
advertising is to convert their dreams into action. This can best be
done by combining mouth-watering photographs with speciɹc how-
to-do-it information. You show a photograph of an ancient Oxford
college, and tell the reader how much it costs to go and see it. When
you are advertising little-known countries, it is particularly important
to give people a lot of information. In a two-page newspaper
advertisement for Singapore we told readers about what to wear,

the weather they could expect, the language, the food, costs, every
mortal thing.
The best photograph in the history of travel advertising evokes rural France in masterly fashion. Taken by Elliott Erwitt under
the inspiration of Bill Bernbach.

To attract tourists to Jamaica, Doyle Dane Bernbach created a campaign which is a classic of travel advertising.
Click here for hi-res image.
For most Americans, cost is the biggest obstacle, followed, I
believe, by fear. Fear that they won’t be able to communicate. Fear
that they will lose their money. Fear of the foreigners; research has
found that Americans believe the British to be polite, honest and
aloof, and the French to be rude, immoral and dirty. Fear of the
food.1 Do your best to allay these fears.
Patterns of travel are peculiarly subject to fashion. The Virgin
Islands may be all the rage one year, Hawaii the next. Try to put
your country on the map, with headlines like Suddenly everyone is
going to Ruritania.

By writing the headline in French – with a translation underneath – I got high readership, and diʃerentiated France from
other tourist destinations.
Tourism advertising works well in magazines, but it can work
even better on television. Doyle Dane Bernbach’s commercials for
France were enchanting. I particularly remember one which sought
to persuade American tourists to visit the French provinces. ‘When
you’ve seen France, you will never go back to Paris.’
I believe that charm works well in tourism advertising. And
diʃerentiation. If you write your headlines in French, everybody will
know you are advertising France.
1Two Frenchmen were driving through the Cotswolds in England. One said to the other,
‘You must admit this is a very beautiful country.’ ‘Yes,’ replied his friend, ‘it is beautiful.
Thank God they can’t cook it.’

