# 16. What little I know about marketing

Paginas: 265-273

W
16
What little I know about
marketing
hen they told me I had won the Parlin Award for Marketing, I
thought they were kidding. I cannot even understand what the
experts write on the subject. Stuʃ like this from Professor Paul
Warshaw of McGill:
Though use of sample cross-validated correlations is acceptable,
the infrequently used squared population cross-validated
correlation coeɽcient ( 2) is a more precise (although slightly
biased) measure (Cattin 1978a, b; Schmitt, Coyle, and
Rauschenberger 1977). It utilizes all available data
simultaneously rather than bisecting the sample into arbitrary
estimation and holdout components. Because of these
comparative advantages, 2 is used in the present analysis.
Though several versions are available, Srinivasan’s (1977)
formulation 2 is acceptable for models containing ɹxed
predictor variables.1
If you can understand this kind of thing, you may ɹnd it useful to
look up other models of consumer behavior, such as Lavidge and
Steiner, Andreason, Nicosia, Engel-Kollat-Blackwell, Howard and
Sheth, and Vaughan. All double Dutch to me. However, thirty odd
years of rubbing shoulders with marketing practitioners has taught
me some things which have helped in my work.
New products

About 35 per cent of supermarket sales come from products which
did not exist ten years ago.
You can judge the vitality of a company by the number of new
products it brings to market. I have known Chief Executive Oɽcers
who made enough proɹt from the products they inherited from their
predecessors to obscure their failure to introduce new ones of their
own. It is not uncommon for such men to grudge a measly million
dollars for developing a new product, but to shell out $100,000,000
to acquire somebody else’s product, without turning a hair. Their
borrowing-power is greater than their brain-power.
The opposite is seen in the pharmaceutical industry. Merck, for
example, spends $200,000,000 a year on new-product research.
Years may go by without their discovering anything, then bingo…up
comes a miracle drug. The eʃect on the share price is lovely to
behold.
Why do eight out of ten new consumer products fail? Sometimes
because they are too new. The ɹrst cold cereals were rejected by
consumers. More often new products fail because they are not new
enough. They do not oʃer any perceptible point of diʃerence – like
better quality, better ɻavor, better value, more convenience or
better solutions to problems.
It helps if the point of diʃerence goes hand-in-hand with a chord
of familiarity that links the new product to the consumer’s past
experience – a disposable diaper, a light beer, a diet cola, a paper
towel.
Naming your product
Finding any name which has not already been registered by another
company is infernally diɽcult. There are three kinds of names:
Names of men and women – like FORD, CAMPBELL and VEUVE
CLICQUOT. They are memorable, they are diɽcult to copy and
they suggest that your product is the invention of a human
being.

Meaningless names like KODAK, KOTEX, and CAMEL. It takes
many years and millions of dollars to endow them with any
sales appeal.
Descriptive names like 3-IN-ONE OIL, BAND-AID and JANITOR
IN A DRUM. Such names start with sales appeal. But they are
too speciɹc to be used for subsequent line-extensions.
You can use consumer research to ɹnd out whether a name says
what you think it says, whether it is easily pronounceable, whether
it is confused with existing names, and whether it is memorable.
Once I told a computer that I wanted a name for a new brand of
coʃee, specifying that it had to begin with the letter M and contain
no more than seven characters. The computer spewed out hundreds
of permutations, and I was back where I started.
If it is important that the name appear as big as possible on a
package, choose a short one like TIDE, and not a long one like
SCREAMING YELLOW ZONKERS.
If you want to use the same name in foreign markets, make sure
that it does not have an obscene meaning in Turkish or any other
language. There have been some nasty accidents.
I have suggested names for dozens of new products, but have not
yet had one accepted. Good luck to you.
Sleeping beauties
Some products which sell well without being advertised may sell
better, and make more proɹt, with advertising. For 40 years the
Lambert Pharmaceutical Company sold modest quantities of a
mouthwash called Listerine, without advertising it. When young
Jerry Lambert started advertising it – as a remedy for halitosis –
sales went through the roof.
Milton S. Hershey built the biggest confectionery business in the
world without advertising. Some years after his death, his successors
asked my partner Bill Weed to ɹnd out whether advertising could
increase their proɹts, most of which went to the Hershey orphanage.
Bill had commercials made for three of their products and tested

them in local markets. One of the products did not respond to
advertising, but sales of Hershey Bars went up, and Reese’s Peanut
Butter Cups went up 66 per cent. By 1980, Hershey was spending
$42,000,000 on advertising.
The end of the block-buster brand
It has become prohibitively expensive to launch brands aimed at a
dominant share-of-market. Even the manufacturers with the biggest
war-chests are ɹnding it more proɹtable to aim their new brands at
narrowly deɹned segments of the market. The recent launch of a
new cigarette cost $100,000,000. The advent of cable television,
with 50 or more channels, will make it easier to aim your
advertising at special groups of consumers. There may never be
another universal giant like Tide or Maxwell House.
Don’t waste time on problem babies
Most marketers spend too much time worrying about how to revive
products which are in trouble, and too little time worrying about
how to make successful products even more successful. It is the
mark of a brave man to admit defeat, cut his loss, and move on.
Concentrate your time, your brains, and your advertising money
on your successes. Back your winners, and abandon your losers.
Don’t dawdle
Most young men in big corporations behave as if proɹt were not a
function of time. When Jerry Lambert scored his breakthrough with
Listerine, he speeded up the whole process of marketing by dividing
time into months. He reviewed progress every 30 days, with the
result that he made a fortune in record time.
Promotions
In 1981, US manufacturers spent 60 per cent more on promotions
than on advertising, and distributed 1,024,000,000,000 coupons.
Bloody fools.

In the long run, the manufacturer who dedicates his advertising to
building the most sharply deɹned image for his product gets the
largest share of the market. The manufacturer who ɹnds himself up
the creek is the short-sighted opportunist who siphons oʃ his
advertising dollars for short-term promotions. Year after year I ɹnd
myself warning clients about what will happen to their brands if
they spend so much on promotion that there is no money left for
advertising.
Price-oʃ deals and other such hypodermics ɹnd favor with sales
managers, but their eʃect is ephemeral, and they can be habit-
forming. Said Bev Murphy, who invented Nielsen’s technique for
measuring consumer purchases and later became President of
Campbell Soup Company: ‘Sales are a function of product-value and
advertising. Promotions cannot produce more than a temporary kink in
the sales curve.’
Says Dr. Ehrenberg: ‘A cut-price oʃer can induce people to try a
brand, but they return to their habitual brands as if nothing had
happened.’
Don’t get me wrong. I am not opposed to all promotions. I would not,
for example, think of launching a detergent without sampling to
consumers.
Pricing is guesswork
It is usually assumed that marketers use scientiɹc methods to
determine the price of their products. Nothing could be further from
the truth. In almost every case, the process of decision is one of
guesswork.
The higher you price your product, the more desirable it becomes
in the eyes of the consumer. Yet when Professor Reisz of the
University of Iowa tried to relate the prices of 679 brands of food
products to their quality, he found that the correlation between
quality and price was almost zero.
Most of the marketers I know are afraid of pricing their products
above competiton. At a dinner in Europe three years ago, the head
of Research and Development in a famous company told me, ‘I have

never seen my company go to market with the best product I could
make. Time after time our marketers force me to give them an
inferior product at a lower price.’ I was able to tell him that there
are now unmistakable signs of a trend in favor of superior products
at premium prices. The consumer is not a moron, she is your wife.
Marketing in recession
What should you do in times of recession, when you need every
penny to sustain your earnings? Stop advertising?
If you stop advertising a brand which is still in its introductory
phase, you will probably kill it – for ever. Studies of the last six
recessions have demonstrated that companies which do not cut back
their advertising budgets achieve greater increases in proɹt than
companies which do cut back.
In a Morril survey of 40,000 men and women involved in the
purchase of 23 industrial products over ɹve years, it was found that
share-of-market went up in bad times – when advertising was
continued.
I have come to regard advertising as part of the product, to be
treated as a production cost, not a selling cost. It follows that it
should not be cut back when times are hard, any more than you
would stint any other essential ingredient in your product.
During World War II, the British Government prohibited the
marketing of margarine under brand names, but Unilever continued
to advertise one of their brands during all the years it was not on
the retailers’ shelves. When the war ended and brands returned, the
Unilever brand emerged at the top of the heap.
Keynes might have advised manufacturers not to advertise during
boom times, but instead to set aside the money in a reserve for
advertising during recessions.
Heavy users
Thirty-two per cent of beer-drinkers drink 80 per cent of all beer.
Twenty-three per cent of laxative users consume 80 per cent of all

laxatives. Fourteen per cent of the people who drink gin consume 80
per cent of all the gin.
In everything you do, keep your eye glued to the heavy users.
They are unlike occasional users in their motivations.
This chart compares sales for companies which cut back their advertising expenditure during the 1974-75 recession with sales
for companies that did not cut back.
The companies that did not cut their advertising budgets did better in every year. By 1977 their sales had more than doubled,
while sales had barely gone up 50 per cent fo companies that cut their advertising. 1975 sales were down for the companies
that cut their advertising, but up for those that didn’t.
By 1977 the net income of companies that did not cut advertising had more than trebled, while for companies that did cut
back during the recession, it had barely doubled.

Why advertise at all?
Many manufacturers secretly question whether advertising really
sells their product, but are vaguely afraid that their competitors
might steal a march on them if they stopped. Others – particularly
in Great Britain – advertise ‘to keep their name before the public’.
Others because it helps them to get distribution. Only a minority of
marketers advertise because they have found that it increases their
proɹts.
On a train journey to California, a friend asked Mr. Wrigley why,
with the lion’s share of the market, he continued to advertise his
chewing gum. ‘How fast do you think this train is going?’ asked
Wrigley. ‘I would say about ninety miles an hour’ ‘Well,’ said
Wrigley, ‘do you suggest we unhitch the engine?’
Advertising is still the cheapest form of selling. It would cost you
$25,000 to have salesmen call on a thousand homes. A television
commercial can do it for $4.69. If you spend $10,000,000 a year on
advertising, you can now (1983) reach 66 per cent of the population
twice a month.
Repertory of brands
A.S.C. Ehrenberg of the London Business School has established that
consumers do not buy one brand of soap, or coʃee, or detergent.
They have a repertory of four or ɹve brands, and move from one to
another. They almost never buy a brand which has not been
admitted to their repertory during its ɹrst year on the market.
Dr. Ehrenberg goes on to argue that the only thing you can expect
from post-launch advertising is that it will persuade present users to
buy your brand more often than the others in their repertory.
If this is true, your launch advertising is a matter of life and
death. Spend every penny you can lay your hands on. Now or never.
Dr. Ehrenberg writes:
’People have a repertory of brands, each of which they buy
fairly regularly … buying behavior remains broadly
characterized as being steady and habitual rather than dynamic.

’Real conversion from virgin ignorance to full-blooded, long-
term commitment does not happen often … sales levels of most
brands tend to be fairly steady.
‘Consumers mostly ignore advertising for brands they are not
already using.’
Dr. John Treasure agrees: ‘The task of advertising is not primarily
one of conversion but rather of reinforcement and assurance…sales of
a given brand may be increased without converting to the brand any
new consumers, but merely by inducing its existing users, those who
already use it at least occasionally, to use it more frequently.’
Sales meetings in the WC
Always hold your sales meetings in rooms too small for the
audience, even if it means holding them in the WC. ‘Standing room
only’ creates an atmosphere of success, as in theatres and
restaurants, while a half-empty auditorium smells of failure.
Use the absolute minimum of electrical equipment. I have seen
the sound systems fail in some of the most elaborately equipped
convention centers in the world, including Berlin, where they have
24 operators.
What is marketing?
I once heard Marvin Bower deɹne marketing as objectivity. I cannot
beat that.
1Journal of Marketing Research, May 1980, this page.

