# 13. Advertising for good causes

Paginas: 239-246

F
13
Advertising for good causes
And raising money for charity
orty years ago, the advertising establishment in the United
States set up the Advertising Council to provide free campaigns for
US Savings Bonds, the Red Cross and other good causes. In 1979,
the media gave $600,000,000 worth of free time and space to the
Council’s campaigns, and the agencies charged nothing for their
services. In 1980, the Council’s campaign to encourage co-operation
with the Census received $38,000,000 worth of free time and space.
This admirable system has one drawback: the success of each
campaign depends on the generosity of the media, which cannot be
predicted. The system in Britain is more controllable: the government
provides the money.
Here are six examples of advertising for good causes.
World Wildlife Fund
During a period of ɹve years, Ogilvy & Mather begged $6,500,000
worth of free advertising from media for the World Wildlife Fund –
in 16 countries.
New York Philharmonic
In 1957 the New York Philharmonic was low in the water. The
musicians were demoralized, playing to half-empty houses. My
simple solution was to buy a page in the New York Times and
publish the complete schedule for the coming season, in advance.

Years later, someone who was in a position to know told me that
this had done as much as Leonard Bernstein to put the Philharmonic
back on its feet.
United Negro College Fund
A letter was distributed in commuter trains leaving Grand Central
Station for the aʀuent suburbs. It began: ‘When this train emerges
from the tunnel at 108th Street this evening, look out of the window’.
What the commuters saw was the black slums of Harlem. In a single
evening this letter produced contributions of $26,000 for the United
Negro College Fund.

During a period of ɹve years, Ogilvy & Mather begged $6,500,000 worth of free space for the World Wildlife Fund in 16
countries. The ads produced only modest contributions of cash in the mail, their function being to sensitize the public for more
personal methods of fund-raising.
Click here for hi-res image.
Sierra Club
Howard Gossage, the most articulate rebel in the advertising
business, held that advertising was too valuable an instrument to
waste on commercial products. He believed that it justiɹed its
existence only when it was used for social purposes. One of his
advertisements for the Sierra Club, opposing a hydroelectric project

in Grand Canyon, pulled 3,000 applications for membership at $14
each.
To raise money for the United Negro College Fund, I had this letter put on every seat in the commuter trains leaving Grand
Central Station for the aʀuent suburbs. It produced $26,000 in a single evening. The idea came from Bill Phillips, later
Chairman of Ogilvy & Mather.
Click here for hi-res image.

In 1957 the New York Philharmonic was playing to half-empty houses. My simple solution was to buy space in the New York
Times and publish the complete program for the coming season in advance. This worked.
Teenage alcoholism in Norway
In 1974 the Norwegian Government started an advertising campaign
to reduce alcoholism among teenagers. The ɹrst advertisements
were aimed at boys and girls between the ages of 14 and 16, with
headlines such as ‘I vomit almost every time I drink’. Readership
was the highest ever recorded in Norway. Later, the campaign was
modiɹed to address parents, explaining why children drink and the
risks they run, with headlines like: ‘The average Norwegian 16/17-

year-old drank 155 bottles of alcohol last year. Parents should know
what damage their children are risking.’ More than 70 per cent of
Norwegian parents read these advertisements, and the campaign
triggered a massive discussion in the media. Drinking among
teenagers decreased for the ɹrst time in many years.
In 1966, a group of Arizona Senators proposed a Bill which would have approved the ɻooding of part of the Grand Canyon
for an unnecessary hydroelectric project. Howard Gossage’s agency in San Francisco ran a campaign for the conservationist
Sierra Club who opposed it. His ɹrst ad pulled 3,000 applications for club membership – and the hydroelectric project was
scrapped. Gossage believed that advertising justiɹed its existence only when used for social purposes. The most articulate rebel
in the advertising business, he said things like-this: ‘I love the advertising business. I truly do, although it’s no business of a
grown man. I love it because it’s such a lovely Augean stable to clean up.’
Click here for hi-res image and text.

Cancer in India
In 1978 a survey in Bombay revealed that knowledge of the causes,
symptoms and treatment of cancer was abysmally low. Then the
Indian Cancer Society asked my Indian partners to mount an
advertising campaign. The purpose of the campaign was to change
attitudes from ignorance and fatalism to understanding and
optimism. Only then could people be persuaded to have regular
check-ups at the free clinics of the Society. The theme was one of
hope: ‘Life after cancer  …  it’s worth living’. The advertisements
showed real people who had been cured. Within two months, the
number of check-ups given by the clinics tripled. (See this page.)
Two in a series of advertisements created by the Oslo oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather on the subject of teenage alcoholism. Left The
headline quotes a 14-year-old girl: ‘I vomit almost every time I drink.’ Readership was the highest ever recorded in Norway.
Right The headline reads: ‘The Norwegian 16/17-year-old drank 155 bottles of alcohol last year. His parents should know
the damage he risks.’ More than 70 per cent of Norwegian parents read these advertisements, and drinking among teenagers
decreased for the ɹrst time in many years.
Raising money
Before you rush oʃ to your favorite charity and volunteer to raise
money by running advertisements, I must warn you that it is rare

for any advertisement, however powerful, to bring in enough direct
contributions to pay for the cost of the space.
What advertising can do, is to ‘sensitize’ the market, thus making
it easier to raise money by more personal methods of solicitation. It
is diɽcult to persuade people to give money to a charity unless they
know something about it.

