# 3. Jobs in advertising – and how to get them

Paginas: 48-68

3
Jobs in advertising – and how to
get them
Cosimo de Medici persuaded Benvenuto Cellini,
the Florentine sculptor, to enter his service by
writing him a letter which concluded, ‘Come, I
will choke you with gold’
Advertising oʃers four diʃerent career paths:
1 You can join a television network, a radio station, a magazine or a
newspaper and sell time or space to advertisers and their agencies.
2 You can join a retailer like Sears Roebuck, and work as a
copywriter, art director or advertising manager.
3 You can join a manufacturing company like Procter & Gamble,
and work as a brand manager.
4 You can join an advertising agency.
These are not watertight compartments. Copywriters trained at
Sears Roebuck sometimes migrate to agencies. Brand managers
escape from Procter & Gamble to join agencies. Time-buyers at
agencies move to broadcasting networks.
I am competent to write only about jobs in agencies. I don’t know
any other trade which oʃers such variety. The atmosphere is

extraordinarily stimulating. Agencies are psychological hothouses.
You will never be bored.
All the big agencies are international and oʃer job opportunities in
Europe, Asia and Latin America. If you are ɻuent in a foreign
language, it helps.
At the start of your career in advertising, what you learn is more
important than what you earn. Some agencies take great pains to
train their people. As in teaching hospitals, their top people devote
an enormous amount of time to teaching the interns. Agency
employees in countries where advertising is relatively mature do not
always welcome attempts to teach them. However wet behind the
ears, they believe that they have nothing to learn. But in Asia and
other developing areas, they welcome lecturers with open arms and
hang on their every word. Not surprisingly, Asian standards of
competence are rapidly improving. I now see campaigns in India,
Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Indonesia which are
better than many campaigns coming out of Europe and the United
States. (See Chapter 17.)
Copywriters
Like all trades and professions, advertising has its establishment.
You will ɹnd the names in the roster of 84 men and four women
who have been elected to the Advertising Hall of Fame since its
foundation 32 years ago. I regret to say that only 13 of them are
copywriters.
Copywriters may not be the most visible people in agencies, but
they are the most important. The hallmarks of a potentially
successful copywriter include:
Obsessive curiosity about products, people and advertising.
A sense of humor.
A habit of hard work.
The ability to write interesting prose for printed media, and
natural dialogue for television.

The ability to think visually. Television commercials depend
more on pictures than words.
The ambition to write better campaigns than anyone has ever
written before.
‘Most good copywriters’, says William Maynard of the Bates agency,
‘fall into two categories. Poets. And killers. Poets see an ad as an
end. Killers as a means to an end.’ If you are both killer and poet,
you get rich.
Art directors
You cannot get a job as an art director unless you have had some
training in ɹlm, layout, photography and typography. It helps to be
endowed with good taste.
Since print went out of fashion, many art directors have turned
themselves into television producers. Television, being a visual
medium, is a natural outlet for their talents.
Art directors used to be the handmaidens of copywriters, but they
have now gone up in the world. Indeed, some art directors have
risen to become distinguished Creative Directors – notably Bob Gage
at Doyle Dane Bernbach, Hal Riney at Ogilvy & Mather, and Keith
Reinhard at Needham, Harper & Steers.
Account executives
The chief role of account executives is to extract the best possible
work from the other departments of the agency. They are in daily
touch with clients.
If I wanted to become an account executive, I would ɹrst spend a
couple of years at Procter & Gamble in brand management, followed
by a year in a consumer research company, learning what makes
people tick – particularly people who are less well educated than I
am.
Some agencies now hire more women account executives than
men. In the New York oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather, 69 per cent of the

account executives are women.
It used to be that account executives were better paid than the
brand managers who were their opposite numbers on the client side,
and were often responsible not only for the advertising, but for the
total marketing plan. But those days are over. The clients now
recruit at the same business schools, and pay higher salaries than
agencies. As a result, the role of the account executive at many
agencies has been reduced to one of co-ordination. On an airplane
not long ago, I overheard the following conversation:
‘What business are you in?’
‘Engineer. You?’
‘I’m an account executive in an ad agency.’
‘You write the ads?’
‘No, copywriters do that.’
‘That must be a fun job.’
‘It’s not that easy. We do a lot of research.’
‘You do the research?’
‘No, we have research people for that.’
‘Do you bring in the new clients?’
‘That’s not my job.’
‘Forgive me, but what is your job?’
‘Marketing.’
‘You do the marketing for the clients?’
‘No, they do it themselves.’
‘Are you in management?’
‘No, but I soon will be.’

If this dismal dialogue does not put you oʃ, and you still want to
start your career as an account executive, I repeat the advice I
oʃered in my Confessions. Set yourself to becoming the best-
informed person in the agency on the account to which you are
assigned. If, for example, it is a gasoline account, read books on oil
geology and the production of petroleum products. Read the trade
journals in the ɹeld. Spend Saturday mornings in service stations,
talking to motorists. Visit your client’s reɹneries and research
laboratories. At the end of your ɹrst year, you will know more about
the oil business than your boss, and be ready to succeed him.

Most of the work you do will be routine maintenance. Your
golden opportunity will come when you rise to a great occasion.
Some years ago, Lever Brothers asked their seven agencies to submit
policy papers on the television medium, which was then quite new.
The other agencies put in adequate papers of ɹve or six pages, but a
young man on my staʃ took the trouble to assemble every
conceivable statistic and, after working day and night for three
weeks, came up with an analysis which covered one hundred and
seventy-seven pages. The following year he was elected to our board
of directors.
Some young men and women are attracted by the travel and
entertainment which attach to the work of an account executive.
They soon ɹnd that lunching in expensive restaurants is no fun if
you have to explain a declining share-of-market while eating the
souʀé. Riding the circuit of test markets can be a nightmare if one
of your children is in hospital.
Account executives can be divided into custodians and
contributors. You can probably get by if you never function as more
than a channel of communication between your client and your
service departments, like a waiter who shuttles between the chefs in
the kitchen and the customers in the dining room. No doubt you
will perform this function with aplomb, but I hope you will
contribute more than that. Like inventing big ideas for selling the
product.
However hard you work, and however knowledgeable you
become, you will be unable to represent your agency at the client’s
policy levels until you are at least 30 years old. One of my partners
owes the rapidity of his ascent to the fact that he had the good
fortune to have his hair turn white at twenty-seven.
You will never become a successful account executive unless you
learn to make good presentations. Most of your clients will be
corporations, and you must be able to sell campaigns to their
committees. Your presentations must be well written, and well
delivered.
Do not make the common mistake of regarding your clients as
dopes. Make friends with them. Buy shares in their companies. But

try not to become entangled in their politics. Emulate Talleyrand,
who served France through seven regimes.
Always tell your client what you would do if you were in his
shoes, but don’t grudge him the prerogative of deciding what
advertising to run. It is his product, his money, and ultimately his
responsibility.
In your day-to-day dealings with clients and colleagues, ɹght for
the kings, queens and bishops, but throw away the pawns. A habit
of graceful surrender on trivial issues will make you diɽcult to
resist when you stand and ɹght on a major issue.
Don’t discuss your clients’ business in public places. Keep their
secrets under lock and key. A reputation for leaking can ruin you.
Learn to write lucid memoranda. The senior people to whom they
are addressed have more homework than you do. The longer and
more turgid your memos, the less likely they are to be read by
executives who have the power to act on them. In 1941, Winston
Churchill sent the following memo to the First Lord of the
Admiralty:
‘Pray state this day, on one side of a sheet of paper, how the Royal
Navy is being adapted to meet the conditions of modern warfare.’
Researchers
To get a job in the Research Department of a good agency, you
probably need a degree in statistics or psychology. You also need an
analytical mind, and the ability to write readable reports.
You must also be able to work sympathetically with creative
people, most of whom are stubbornly allergic to research. Above all
you must be intellectually honest. A researcher who injects bias into
his reports does awful damage.

Grateful as I am to the researchers who have helped me to
produce eʃective advertising, I have nine bones to pick with them:
1 They take three months when I only have three weeks. When
Eisenhower was President, the White House called Dr. Gallup
one evening at six o’clock. Eisenhower wanted to know the
state of public opinion on an important issue of foreign policy.
The report had to be on the President’s desk at eight o’clock the
next morning. Gallup sent for six of his henchmen and dictated
three questions. Then each of the henchmen telephoned six
interviewers in diʃerent parts of the country, and they
interviewed ten people each. By midnight they had called in
their results. Gallup tabulated them, wrote his report and
dictated it to a White House stenographer. The report was on
Eisenhower’s desk two hours before it was due.
Nor is this merely an example of presidential clout. When
Robert Kennedy lost the Oregon primary in 1968, his campaign
manager had a research report on his desk eighteen hours after
the polls closed, analysing the reasons for his defeat.
When I ɹrst went to run the Audience Research Institute for
Dr. Gallup, it took our statisticians two months to deliver their
reports. I bullied them into telescoping the work into two days,

thereby making the reports of much greater value to the
Hollywood executives who were our clients.
So why does it take agency researchers three months to
answer a few simple questions? They are natural slowpokes,
and too frightened of making mistakes.
2 They cannot agree among themselves on methodology. It
recently took the Research Directors of the 21 biggest agencies
two years to reach agreement on the principles which should
govern copy-testing. Now they have started to debate
methodology. Five years?
3 It is in research departments that you ɹnd the eggheads of the
agency business. Too many of them are more interested in
sociology and economics than advertising. They concentrate
their attention on subjects which are only peripherally related
to advertising.
4 They have little or no system for retrieving research which
has already been conducted. Reports are read, sometimes acted
on, and ɹled. Two years later the researcher, the account
executive, the copywriter and the brand manager have moved
to fresh pastures. Even if somebody remembers that the
research was done, nobody can ɹnd it. So we re-invent the
wheel, year after year.
5 Advertising research is full of fads. In the sixties we saw Eye
Cameras, Latin Squares, Facturals, Randomized Blocks, Greco-
Latin Squares. Some of them were useful, but all went out of
fashion.
6 Researchers use graphs which are incomprehensible to
laymen. And their reports are too long. When he was an
executive at Procter & Gamble, Ralph Glendinning refused to
read any research report which was more than a quarter of an
inch thick.

7 Researchers have a maddening way of refusing to undertake
projects which they consider imperfect by their perfectionist
standards, even when the project would produce actionable
results. Said Winston Churchill, ‘PERFECTIONISM is spelled
PARALYSIS.’
8 Ninety-nine researchers out of a hundred content themselves
with conducting surveys for which they are asked, but seldom
take initiatives. Stop asking them questions, and they grind to a
halt.
9 Worst of all, researchers use pretentious jargon – such as
attitudinal paradigms, judgmentally, demassiɹcation,
reconceptualize, sub-optimal, symbiotic linkage, splinterization.
Come oʃ it, professor.
Media
I have never worked in the media department of an agency, but
observation of those who have been successful in this ɹeld leads me
to think that they need an analytical mind, the ability to
communicate numerical data in non-numerical formats, stability
under pressure, and a taste for negotiation with the owners of
media.
Chief Executive Oɽcer
The most diɽcult job in an agency is Chief Executive Oɽcer. He (or
she) must be a good leader of frightened people. He must have
ɹnancial acumen, administrative skill, thrust, and the courage to
ɹre non-performers. He must be a good salesman, because he is
responsible for bringing in new clients. He must be resilient in
adversity. Above all, he must have the physical stamina to work 12
hours a day, dine out several times a week, and spend half his time
in airplanes.1
A recent study reveals that the death rate from stress-related
causes is 14 per cent higher among senior advertising executives

than their counterparts in other white-collar occupations.
Creative Director
As a Creative Director myself, I dare to list the attributes needed for
this back-breaking job. You must be:
1 A good psychologist.
2 Willing and able to set high standards.
3 An eɽcient administrator.
4 Capable of strategic thinking – ‘positioning’ and all that.
5 Research-minded.
6 Equally good at television and print.
7 Equally good at package goods and other kinds of accounts.
8 Well versed in graphics and typography.
9 A hard worker – and fast.
10 Slow to quarrel.
11 Prepared to share credit for good work, and accept blame
for bad work.
12 A good presenter.
13 A good teacher and a good recruiter.
14 Full of infectious joie de vivre.
Notice that I put ‘good psychologist’ at the top of the list. Albert
Lasker, who made the largest fortune in the history of the
advertising business, once told a group of copywriters, ‘You think
managing copywriters is a snap? You have taken some hairs out of
me. I had a breakdown that kept me ɹve and one-half months. I
couldn’t talk for ɹve minutes without starting to weep.’

Women in advertising
Feminists are doing dreadful things to the English language. I refuse
to write spokesperson, chairperson, househusband or womanhole
cover.
Like most boys of my generation, I started life believing that
women belonged in the home, until I noticed how much happier my
mother was when she went out to work. My ɹrst woman Vice-
President was Reva Korda, a brilliant copywriter who later became
head of the Creative Department. For all her brains and ability, even
Reva encountered male copywriters and art directors who felt
uncomfortable working under any woman. But there are now 52
women Vice-Presidents in the New York oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather,
and there appears to be no resentment of them among the male
staʃ.
The majority of people now being recruited by advertising
agencies in the United States for so-called ‘professional’ jobs are
women.
Firing and hiring
Agencies used to ɹre people at the drop of a hat. Stirling Getchel’s
otherwise admirable agency had a turnover in staʃ of 137 per cent
in one year. Another agency ɹred a copywriter because he dared to
talk to the boss in the men’s room. Today the boot is on the other
foot. The people who work in agencies are lamentably nomadic. I
recently hired a 40-year-old copywriter who had already changed
jobs eleven times.
You might suppose that a business which depends entirely on the
talent of its people would take recruiting seriously, but that is not
yet the case. In most agencies, the recruiting is still sloppy and
haphazard. Even today, it is rare for any agency to ask an
applicant’s former employers what they think of him. I know two
men who were hired and ɹred as Presidents of three agencies –
without their references being checked.
Education for advertising

Eighty-seven American universities oʃer undergraduate courses in
advertising, and some even give degrees in it. With a few
conspicuous exceptions, the teachers lack the practical experience to
be relevant. All of them are handicapped by the poor quality of the
textbooks, and very few do research of their own. Most of their
graduates get jobs with small agencies, the big agencies preferring
to recruit people who have furnished their minds by studying
history, languages, economics and so forth.
The fashion for recruiting at schools of business administration
seems to have passed its peak. Give or take a few stars like the
Baker Scholars at the Harvard Business School, their alumni are
more remarkable for stodginess and arrogance than imagination.
Social status
When I was a door-to-door salesman for Aga cooking stoves in
Scotland, I paid a cold call on an aristocrat. He threw me out. What
right had I to invade his privacy? ‘Sir,’ I said, ‘you are a Director of
two companies which sell their products door-to-door. How dare
you insult me for doing something which your own salesmen do
every day?’ His disdain for salesmen is mirrored in the snobbish
attitude of the British establishment towards advertising. Not so in
the United States.
Moonlighting
If you need more income than your agency is willing to pay you,
make up the diʃerence by moonlighting. I have been moonlighting
for 30 years. The Curtis Publishing Company gave me two
magniɹcent china lamps for writing an advertisement for Holiday
magazine. They had been bullying their editors and I had reason to
believe that they were about to ɹre Ted Patrick, the marvelous
editor of Holiday. So I persuaded the heads of the 12 biggest
agencies to join me in a testimonial to Ted, applauding him for his
‘indiʃerence to the heckling of publishers.’ The Curtis people were
too dumb to realize that this would make it impossible for them to
ɹre Ted, and ran my advertisement.

The Reader’s Digest gave $10,000 to the Scottish school which had
educated me, in return for an advertisement I wrote for them.
Omega, the watch company, paid me $25,000 to spend four days
at their headquarters in Switzerland, advising them how to improve
their advertising. To my surprise, they got their money’s worth.
Even today, I am retained by the Campbell Soup Company as their
consultant on marketing.
Curtis Publishing paid me two antique china lamps for writing this advertisement in my spare time. They did not guess my
real motive: to make it impossible for them to ɹre the editor of Holiday magazine. The signatories were the heads of the
twelve biggest agencies – Holiday’s customers.
Click here for hi-res image.

‘Be happy while you’re living’
‘Chess’, wrote Raymond Chandler, ‘is about as elaborate a waste of
human intelligence as you could ɹnd anywhere outside an
advertising agency.’ If advertising is a waste of intelligence, it isn’t a
very serious one. Not more than 100,000 men and women work in
advertising agencies in the United States – less than 0.1 per cent of
the working population. About 15,000 work in British agencies.
Most of the people I know in agencies strike me as well cast for
their work and reasonably happy in it. Whenever I think that
someone is wasting his talents in advertising, I tell him so. One of
my partners is a superb naturalist, and secretly resented every day
he spent in the agency. On my advice he retired – and went on to
save endangered species of fauna from extinction. In the words of
the Scottish proverb, ‘Be happy while you’re living, for you’re a long
time dead.’
A few advertising people regard advertising as an unworthy
occupation. Thus the head of the agency in Paris that helped
François Mitterrand become President of France called his
autobiography: Don’t tell my mother I work in an advertising agency –
she thinks I play the piano in a whorehouse. Poor chap.

In gratitude for my writing this advertisement, Reader’s Digest gave $10,000 to the Scottish school where I was educated.
Because it was to appear over my signature, I took great pains to write it well – well enough for Raymond Rubicam to call it
‘a masterpiece.’ If all clients insisted on their agencies signing their ads, they would gel better ads.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Those of us who study public opinion surveys are aware that the
lay public thinks we admen are rascals. Dr. Gallup recently asked
people to rate 24 professions for honesty. Top marks went to
clergymen, bottom marks to trade-union leaders, car salesmen and
advertising practitioners. The stereotype of the ‘huckster’ dies hard.
But I don’t think our poor image keeps many of us awake at night. I

have never felt any inclination to give up my job and become a
clergyman. I enjoy my work, and sometimes feel proud of its results.
How to apply for a job
Don’t telephone – write to three or four agencies, and enclose your
curriculum vitae. Be sure to type your letter, and take a lot of
trouble with it. In their book Writing that Works,2 my partners
Kenneth Roman and Joel Raphaelson oʃer this golden advice:
1 Spell all names right
It’s astonishing how often job applicants misspell the names of the
agencies they want to work for. The message that gets through,
right oʃ the bat, is: ‘This applicant can’t be seriously interested in
working here; he didn’t even take the trouble to ɹnd out how to
spell our name.’
2 Identify the sort of job you’re applying for
State it clearly and at once. Say what led you to apply – a want ad, a
recommendation from a friend, whatever. A letter applying for a job
as a research analyst started in this mysterious way:
Dear Ms. Smith:
It’s spring already – a time to think about planting seeds. Some
seeds are small, like apple seeds. Others are bigger. Coconuts,
for example. But big or little, a seed can grow and ɻourish if it’s
planted in proper soil.
The applicant would have done better to start like this:
Dear Ms. Smith:
I understand that you are looking for a research analyst.
Ms. Smith doesn’t have time to play guessing games with her mail.
3 Be speciɹc and factual

Once you’ve made clear what job you want, then touch on your
chief qualiɹcations. Avoid egotistical abstractions like: ‘Ambition
mixed with a striving for excellence is one of my strongest assets’
4 Be personal, direct and natural
You are a human being writing to another human being. Neither of
you is an institution. You should be businesslike and courteous, but
never stiʃ and impersonal.
The more your letter sounds like you, the more it will stand apart
from the letters of your competitors. But don’t try to dazzle your
reader with your sparkling personality. You wouldn’t show oʃ in an
interview, so why show oʃ in a letter? If you make each sentence
sound the way you would say it across a desk, there will be plenty
of personality in your letter.

This is the ɹrst advertisement I wrote as the head of my own agency – at the age of 39.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
5 Propose a speciɹc next stop
Close your letter with a clear and precise statement of how you wish
to proceed toward an interview. Avoid such mumblings as:
‘Hoping to hear from you soon.’
‘Thank you for your time and consideration.’

‘I’m looking forward to the opportunity of discussing a position
with you.’
All such conclusions place the burden of the next step on your busy
prospective employer. Why make him work in your interest? Do the
job yourself, like this:
‘I’ll call your oɽce on Wednesday afternoon to see if you’d like
me to come in for an interview.’
‘I’m free for an interview every morning until 8:45, and
Thursday after 2:30. I’ll call your oɽce on Wednesday
afternoon to ɹnd out if you would like to get together at any of
those times’
At this stage a phone call makes things easy for the person at the
other end. If you don’t call him, he has to go to the trouble of
calling or writing to you. The idea is to make it as simple as you
possibly can for your prospective employer to set up an appointment
at a time that’s convenient to you.
I am always surprised by the illiteracy of men and women who look
for jobs in advertising. I am bombarded with applications like this
recent lulu:
‘My goal is to seek more challenging experiences to further
develop my skills in marketing and advertising. I feel I have
reached a plateau in my education. My objective is to obtain a
top level management position utilizing extensive experiences
in marketing communications areas as a viable contribution to
corporate objectives. My creative background and expertise
involves a wide range of areas in the development of objectives,
strategies and marketing communications programs to meet
these goals’

If you will take my advice, don’t get a job in advertising unless it
interests you more than anything in the world.
There are many diʃerent kinds of jobs, calling for very diʃerent
skills, all the way from art direction to statistics. All the jobs can be
performed by women, in some cases better than by men.
The pay is good, but don’t expect the gold that Cosimo de Medici
promised Cellini. There are easier ways to get rich.
1Last year my partner Michael Ball ɻew 300,000 miles and spent 131 nights in hotels.
2Harper & Row, New York, 1981.

