# 4. How to run an advertising agency

Paginas: 69-89

R
4
How to run an advertising agency
unning an agency requires midnight oil, salesmanship of the
highest order, a deep keel, guts, thrust, and a genius for sustaining
the morale of men and women who work in a continuous state of
anxiety.
It is popularly believed that advertising attracts neurotics who are
naturally prone to anxiety. I don’t believe this. What happens in
agencies is enough to induce anxiety among the most phlegmatic
people.
The copywriter lives with fear. Will he have a big idea before
Tuesday morning? Will the client buy it? Will it get a high test
score? Will it sell the product? I have never sat down to write an
advertisement without thinking THIS TIME I AM GOING TO FAIL.
The account executive also has reasons for anxiety. He represents
the agency to the client, and the client to the agency. When the
agency goofs, the client holds him responsible. When the client is
bloody-minded, the agency blames him.
The head of the agency also has his worries. Is such-and-such a
client going to ɹre you? Is a valuable partner going to quit? Will
you make a hash of the new business presentation on Thursday?
Make it fun to work in your agency. When people aren’t having
any fun, they don’t produce good advertising. Kill grimness with
laughter. Encourage exuberance. Get rid of sad dogs who spread
gloom.
What kind of paragons are the men and women who run
successful agencies? My observation has been that they are
enthusiasts. They are intellectually honest. They have the guts to
face tough decisions. They are resilient in adversity. Most of them

are natural charmers. They are not bullies. They encourage
communications upwards, and are good listeners. Many of them
drink too much, and read little except oɽce paper, in which they
drown.
With few exceptions, they are decent people, and worth knowing.
It wasn’t always so. When I ɹrst arrived in New York, some of the
agencies were headed by bastards and phonies.
One of the most agreeable things about running an agency is that
all your accounts are in diʃerent industries. In the morning you
discuss the problems and opportunities of a client who makes soap.
In the afternoon it is a bank, or an airline, or a manufacturer of
medicines. But you pay a price for this variety. Every time you see a
client, you have to be suɽciently briefed on his business to give
relevant advice. When I was the chief executive of my agency, I
always took home two briefcases, and spent four hours reading their
contents. Not much fun for my wife. Next to homework, my worst
enemy was the telephone. I was usually 25 return calls behind.
When you are appointed to head an oɽce in the Ogilvy & Mather chain, I send you one of these Russian dolls. Inside the
smallest you will ɹnd this message: ‘If each of us hires people who are smaller than we are, we shall become a company of
dwarfs, but if each of us hires people who are bigger than we are, Ogilvy & Mather will become a company of giants.’
Agencies
are
breeding-grounds
for
sibling
rivalry.
Will
Cadwallader get a corner oɽce before Balfour? Why did you invite
Pennypacker to lunch instead of Morgan? Why was Sidebottom
made a Vice-President before Winterbottom? The agency I know

best has two Chairmen, three Presidents, two Managing Directors,
eight Executive Vice-Presidents, 67 Senior Vice-Presidents and 249
Vice-Presidents. You might suppose that nobody would take such
nonsense seriously, but they do. Giving out the titles reminds me of
Louis XIV: ‘Every time I give someone a title, I make a hundred
people angry and one person ungrateful.’
What can you do to keep sibling rivalry under control? You can
be fair, and you can avoid playing favorites. Said Dr. William
Menninger: ‘The executive is inevitably a father ɹgure. To be a good
father, whether it is to his children or to his associates, requires that
he be understanding, that he be considerate, and that he be human
enough to be aʃectionate.’ If Menninger had been into transactional
analysis, he would have added that the best fathers are ‘nurturing’
rather than ‘controlling.’
Laymen assume that if you work in an advertising agency, you
produce advertisements. The fact is that 90 per cent of the staʃ
don’t. They do research, they prepare media plans, they buy space
and time, they do things loosely described as ‘marketing.’ And about
60 per cent of them do clerical work.
In most agencies there are twice as many account executives as
copywriters. If you were a dairy farmer, would you employ twice as
many milkers as cows?
Friction between copywriters and account executives is endemic
in all agencies. Copywriters traditionally regard account executives
as brainless bullies. I know a few account executives who ɹt this
stereotype, but most of them are sensitive and well educated.
Account executives are apt to regard copywriters as irresponsible
prima donnas. Some are.
Hiring
Success in running an agency depends on your ability to hire men
and women of exceptional talent, to train them thoroughly, and to
make the most of their talents. The most diɽcult people to ɹnd are
those who have the capacity to become good copywriters. I have
found that they always have well-furnished minds. They give

evidence of exceptional curiosity about every subject under the sun.
They have an above-average sense of humor. And they have a
fanatical interest in the craft of advertising. I used to think that
nobody could write good advertising before he was thirty. Then one
day, on a visit to Frankfurt, I asked to meet the author of an
exceptionally good campaign. She was eighteen.
I marvel at the ability of some copywriters to keep their creative
juices ɻowing year after year. George Cecil wrote the American
Telephone advertising for 40 years, and wrote it well. It is a tragedy
of the advertising business that its best practitioners are always
promoted into management. I was inɹnitely more useful to my
clients when I wrote copy than when I was Chairman of the Board.
When someone is made the head of an oɽce in the Ogilvy & Mather
chain, I send him a Matrioshka doll from Gorky. If he has the
curiosity to open it, and keep opening it until he comes to the inside
of the smallest doll, he ɹnds this message: If each of us hires people
who are smaller than we are, we shall become a company of dwarfs. But
if each of us hires people who are bigger than we are, we shall become a
company of giants.
Even when you ɹnd someone who is better than you are, you
won’t always succeed in recruiting him. Among those I have failed
to recruit are Helmut Krone, the great art director; Shirley Polykoʃ,
of Clairol fame; and a young account executive called Bart
Cummings who went on to become head of the Compton agency.

When I advertise for Creative Directors, I make it clear what I want.
Click here for hi-res image.
I have always tried to hire what J.P. Morgan called ‘gentlemen
with brains.’ Did he mean gentlemen in the snobbish sense? I think
so. The debt owed by the United States to Roosevelt, Dean Acheson,
Averell Harriman, Robert Lovett, John J. McCloy, the Rockefeller
brothers and many other aristocrats has not been suɽciently
acknowledged. I have been particularly lucky with alumni of St
Paul’s and Harvard, notably my partners Esty Stowell and Jock

Elliott. But I have also been lucky with gentlemen in the wider sense
of the word.
Brains? It doesn’t necessarily mean a high IQ. It means curiosity,
common sense, wisdom, imagination and literacy. Why literacy?
Because most communication between agencies and clients is in
writing. I don’t suggest that you have to be a poet, but you won’t
climb the ladder very high unless you can write lucid memoranda. I
persuaded two of my partners to write a book on the subject. I
commend it to you.1
Look for young men and women who can one day lead your
agency. Is there any way of predicting the capacity to lead? The
only way I know is to look at their college records. If they were
leaders between the ages of 18 and 22, the odds are that they will
emerge as leaders in middle life.
Make sure you have a Vice-President in charge of Revolution, to
engender ferment among your more conventional colleagues.
Crown Princes
Spot the comers on your staʃ, and plan their careers. Royal Dutch
Shell has found that the most reliable criteria for selecting what
they call Crown Princes are these:
1 The power of analysis.
2 Imagination.
3 A sense of reality.
4 The ‘helicopter quality’- the ability to look at facts and
problems from an overall viewpoint.
John Loudon, the distinguished former head of Shell, believes that
when it comes to picking people for senior jobs, character is more
important than any of these qualities. Dare I confess that I have
come to believe in graphology as an instrument for assessing
character? It is regarded as fakery in the United States, but is widely
used in French business. Before accepting my oʃer of marriage, my

wife had my handwriting analysed by two graphologists. Their
reports were consistent – and accurate.
Promote from within or hire from outside? ‘Mr. Morgan buys his
partners,’ said Andrew Carnegie; ‘I grow mine.’ In the early days of
Ogilvy & Mather, shortage of cash obliged me to pay peanut
salaries. Pay peanuts, says Jimmy Goldsmith, and you get monkeys.
I chose not to promote my monkeys, but to ɹll senior openings from
outside, with stars like Esty Stowell, Jock Elliott and Andrew
Kershaw. Even a mature agency with a pool of potential leaders
does well to refresh its blood by occasionally hiring partners from
outside.
Who not to hire
Never hire your friends. I have made this mistake three times, and
had to ɹre all three. They are no longer my friends.
Never hire your client’s children. If you have to ɹre them, you
may lose the client. This is another mistake I have made.
Never hire your own children, or the children of your partners.
However able they may be, ambitious people won’t stay in outɹts
which practice nepotism. This is one mistake I did not make; my son
is in the real estate business, secure in the knowledge that he owes
nothing of his success to his father.
Think twice before hiring people who have been successful in
other ɹelds. I have hired a magazine editor, a lawyer and an
economist. None of them developed an interest in advertising.
And never hire your clients. The qualities which make someone a
good client are not the qualities required for success in the agency
business. I have made this mistake twice.
Oɽce politicians
The hothouse atmosphere in agencies can cause outbreaks of
psychological warfare to rival university faculties.2 The politics
became so vicious at Milton Biow’s agency that he was forced to
close down. I know of seven ways to squelch them:

1 Fire the worst of the politicians. You can identify them by
how often they send you blind copies of their poison-pen
memos to their rivals.
2 When somebody comes to your oɽce and denounces his rival
as an incompetent rascal, summon the rival and make the
denouncer repeat what he has just told you.
3 Crusade against paper warfare. Make your people settle their
ɹghts face to face.
4 Start a luncheon club within the agency. It turns enemies into
friends.
5 Discourage poaching.
6 Don’t play favorites.
7 Don’t play politics. If you practice the ɹendish art of divide et
impera, your agency will go up in smoke.
Discipline works
Insist that your people arrive on time, even if you have to pay them
a bonus to do so. Insist that telephones are answered promptly. Be
eternally vigilant about the security of your clients’ secrets;
indiscretion in elevators and restaurants, the premature use of
outside typesetters, and the display of forthcoming advertisements
on notice boards can do grave damage to your clients.
Sustain unremitting pressure on the professional standards of your
staʃ. It is suicide to settle for second-rate performance. Above all,
insist that due dates are kept, even if it means working all night and
over the weekend. Hard work, says the Scottish proverb, never
killed a man. People die of boredom and disease. There is nothing
like an occasional all-night push to enliven morale – provided you
are part of the push. Never leave the bridge in a storm.
St Augustine had this to say about pressure:

‘To be under pressure is inescapable. Pressure takes place
through all the world: war, siege, the worries of state. We all
know men who grumble under these pressures, and complain.
They are cowards. They lack splendor. But there is another sort
of man who is under the same pressure, but does not complain.
For it is the friction which polishes him. It is pressure which
reɹnes and makes him noble.’
I have to admit that I have sometimes found the pressure
unbearable; my own fault for frittering away so much time on things
which lead nowhere. It is a good idea to start the year by writing
down exactly what you want to accomplish, and end the year by
measuring how much you have accomplished. McKinsey imposes
this discipline on its partners and pays them according to how many
of the things on their lists they accomplish.
Leadership
I have had unique opportunities for observing men who manage
great corporations – my clients. Most of them are good problem-
solvers and decision-makers, but few are outstanding leaders. Some of
them, far from inspiring their lieutenants, display a genius for
castrating them.
Great leadership can have an electrifying eʃect on the
performance of any corporation. I have had the good fortune to
work for three inspiring leaders – Monsieur Pitard, who was my
boss in the kitchens of the Majestic Hotel in Paris; George Gallup;
and Sir William Stephenson of British Intelligence.
There has been a lot of research into leadership. It is the
consensus among the social scientists that success in leadership
depends on the circumstances. For example, a man who has been an
outstanding leader in an industrial company can be a ɻop when he
goes to Washington as Secretary of Commerce. And the kind of
leadership which works well in a new company seldom works well
in a mature company.

There appears to be no correlation between leadership and
academic achievement. I was relieved to learn this, because I have
no college degree. The motivation which makes a man a good
student is not the kind of motivation which makes him a good
leader.
There is a tendency for corporations to reject executives who do
not ɹt their conventions. How many corporations would promote a
maverick like Charlie Kettering of General Motors? How many
advertising agencies would hire a 38-year-old man whose
curriculum vitae read: ‘Unemployed farmer, former cook and
university drop-out?’ (Me in the year I started Ogilvy & Mather.)
The best leaders are apt to be found among those executives who
have a strong component of unorthodoxy in their characters. Instead
of resisting innovation, they symbolize it – and companies cannot
grow without innovation.
Great leaders almost always exude self-conɹdence. They are never
petty. They are never buck-passers. They pick themselves up after
defeat – the way Howard Clark of American Express picked himself
up after the salad oil swindle. Under Howard’s indomitable
leadership, the price of American Express shares increased fourteen-
fold.
Great leaders are always fanatically committed to their jobs. They
do not suʃer from the crippling need to be universally loved. They
have the guts to make unpopular decisions – including the guts to
ɹre non-performers. Gladstone once said that a great Prime Minister
must be a good butcher.
I saw the head chef at the Hotel Majestic ɹre a pastry cook
because the poor devil could not get his brioches to rise straight.
This ruthlessness made all the other chefs feel that they were
working in the best kitchen in the world.
Some men are good at leading the multitude – whether it be the
labor force in their company, or the voting population in their
country. But these same men are often miserable leaders of a small
group.
Good leaders are decisive. They grasp nettles. Some of them are
very odd characters. Lloyd George was sexually chaotic. General

Grant, who won the Civil War, drank like a ɹsh. On November 26,
1863, the New York Herald quoted Lincoln as saying: ‘I wish some of
you would tell me the brand of whiskey that Grant drinks. I would
like to send a barrel of it to my other generals’
Winston Churchill was another hardened drinker. He was
capricious and petulant. He was grossly inconsiderate of his staʃ. He
was a colossal egotist. Yet his Chief of Staʃ wrote of him:
‘I shall always look back on the years I worked with him as some
of the most diɽcult and trying ones in my life. For all that I thank
God that I was given the opportunity of working alongside of such
a man, and of having my eyes opened to the fact that occasionally
such supermen exist on this earth.’
I do not believe that fear is a tool used by good leaders. People do
their best work in a happy atmosphere. Ferment and innovation
depend on joie de vivre. I am indebted to Charlie Brower of BBDO for
his amendment to the 13th chapter of St Paul’s ɹrst Epistle to the
Corinthians: ‘A man who spendeth his life gathering gold for the
United States Treasury and has no fun, is a sounding ass and a
tinkling idiot.’
The great leaders I have known have been curiously complicated
men. Howard Johnson, the former President of MIT, has described it
as ‘a visceral form of spiritual energy which provides the element of
mystery in leadership.’ I have seen this mysterious energy in Marvin
Bower of McKinsey, Ted Moscoso of Puerto Rico, and Henry
Alexander of Morgan Guaranty.

A ‘visceral form of spiritual energy’ characterized these great leaders.
Marvin Bower of McKinsey,

Ted Moscoso of Puerto Rico,
Henry Alexander of Morgan Guaranty.

The most eʃective leader is the one who satisɹes the
psychological needs of his followers. For example, it is one thing to
be a good leader of Americans, who are raised in a tradition of
democracy and have a high need for independence. But the
American brand of democratic leadership doesn’t work so well in
Europe, where executives have a psychological need for more
autocratic leadership. That is one of many reasons why it is wise for
American agencies to appoint locals to lead their foreign
subsidiaries.
It does an agency no good when its leader never shares his
leadership functions with his lieutenants. The more centers of
leadership you create, the stronger your agency will become.
There is an art in being a good follower. On the night before a
major battle, the ɹrst Duke of Marlborough was reconnoitering the
terrain. He and his staʃ were on horseback. Marlborough dropped
his glove. Cadogan, his chief of staʃ, dismounted, picked up the
glove and handed it to Marlborough. The other oɽcers thought this
remarkably civil of Cadogan. Later that evening, Marlborough
issued his ɹnal order: ‘Cadogan, put a battery of guns where I
dropped my glove.’
‘I have already done so,’ replied Cadogan. He had read
Marlborough’s mind, and anticipated his order. Cadogan was the
kind of follower who makes leadership easy. I have known men
whom nobody could lead.
Most of the great leaders I know have the ability to inspire people
with their speeches. If you cannot write inspiring speeches yourself,
use ghost-writers – but use good ones. Roosevelt used the poet
Archibald MacLeish, the playwright Robert Sherwood and Judge
Rosenmann. That is why he was more inspiring than any of the
Presidents we have had since, with the exception of John F.
Kennedy, who also used outstanding ghost-writers.
Very few chief executives are good on their feet. Whoever writes
the speeches, the CEO delivers them atrociously. Competence,
however, can be learned. All major politicians hire experts to teach
them the art of delivery.3

The man who said the wisest things about leadership was Field
Marshal Montgomery:
‘The leader must have infectious optimism, and the
determination to persevere in the face of diɽculties. He must
also radiate conɹdence, even when he himself is not too certain
of the outcome.
‘The ɹnal test of a leader is the feeling you have when you
leave his presence after a conference. Have you a feeling of
uplift and conɹdence?’
Alcoholics
It is reliably reported that seven out of every hundred executives in
American business are alcoholics, and it is reasonable to assume that
the proportion in your agency is at least as high. By alcoholic, I
mean somebody whose drinking seriously interferes with his family
life and his performance in the agency. He is on the way to losing
his job, wrecking his marriage and dying of cirrhosis.
Your alcoholics may include some of your brightest stars. The
problem is to identify them, protected as they always are by their
secretaries and their colleagues. Invite the alcoholic’s wife to join
you in a surprise confrontation with her husband. Start by telling
him that all present are devoted to him. Then say how worried you
are about his drinking. His wife and his children are about to leave
him, and you are about to ɹre him – unless he does what you ask. A
reservation has been made for him to enter a treatment center that
very day.
Most alcoholics agree to go. It takes a week for the center to dry
them out, and another four weeks to rehabilitate them. On returning
home, they must go to daily meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous for
at least a year.
This procedure works in about 60 per cent of cases. I have seen it
salvage some valuable people of both sexes. If you would like
further advice on the subject, consult the nearest chapter of
Alcoholics Anonymous.

Written principles
Marvin Bower, who made McKinsey what it is today, believes that
every company should have a written set of principles and purposes.
So I drafted mine and sent them to Marvin for comment. On the ɹrst
page I had listed seven purposes, starting with Earn an increased
proɹt every year. Marvin gave me holy hell. He said that any service
business which gave higher priority to proɹts than to serving its
clients deserved to fail. So I relegated proɹt to seventh place on my
list.
Do you think it childish to use a set of written principles to guide
the management of an advertising agency? I can only tell you that
mine have proved invaluable in keeping a complicated enterprise on
course.
Proɹt and all that
I do not fancy myself as a ɹnancial wizard, but I have learned a
thing or two from my partner Shelby Page, who has presided over
the ɹnances of Ogilvy & Mather since the ɹrst day. The average
proɹt in agencies is less than 1 per cent after taxes. If you chisel on
service, you can make more than that, but your clients will leave
you. If your service is too generous, your clients will love you, but
you will go broke.
Size and proɹt are not the same thing. In 1981, Ogilvy & Mather
made more proɹt than an agency which bills twice as much.
Agencies add new services the way universities add new courses.
Nothing wrong with that if you also discontinue services which have
outlived their relevance. To keep your boat moving through the
water, keep scraping the barnacles oʃ its bottom.
Seven of the twelve biggest agencies are public companies. Their
share prices have increased 439 per cent during the last ten years,
compared with 37 per cent for Standard & Poor’s 500.
Many security analysts still believe that agencies are a poor
investment. Not so Warren Buʃett, one of the most successful
investors in the world. He has taken substantial positions in three
publicly held agencies, and is quoted as saying, ‘The best business is

a royalty on the growth of others, requiring very little capital
itself…such as the top international advertising agencies.’
If you read the advertising columns in newspapers, you get the
impression that the agency business is dangerously unstable. The
reason is that the newspapers only report movements of accounts
from one agency to another. Yet only 4 per cent of total US
advertising changes agencies during a year.
The 25 biggest agencies in 1972 are, with only one exception, the
25 biggest today, 11 years later. Eight of the top ten are in their
ɹfth or sixth generation of management. Only Ogilvy & Mather has
its founder still on board.
How to get paid
You will have to choose between the traditional commission system
and the newer system of fees.4 The fee system has four advantages:
1 The advertiser pays for the services he wants – no more, no
less.
2 Every fee account pays its own way. Unproɹtable accounts do
not ride on the coat-tails of proɹtable accounts, which is the
case with the commission system.
3 Temporary cuts in clients’ budgets do not oblige you to cut
staʃ.
4 When you advise a client to increase his advertising, he does
not suspect your motive.
I pioneered the fee system, but I no longer care how I get paid,
provided I make a reasonable proɹt. In 1981, the average net proɹt
of American agencies was 0.83 per cent of billing. Does that strike
you as unreasonable?
When a client frets about the price of his agency’s services, he
ends up getting a low price and poor advertising.

What to do with your proɹts
First, you have to pay 52 per cent corporation tax. If you distribute
what is left as dividends, your shareholders have to pay a further 40
per cent as income tax. When they spend their dividends, they have
to pay sales tax. The Government has taken 73 cents out of every
dollar you made as proɹt.
Some agencies have invested their proɹts in ventures outside their
competence – an insurance company, a travel agency, a retail chain,
a ɹsh cannery, a motion picture company, even a small oil
company. Not surprisingly, they all burned their ɹngers. (I resisted
that temptation.)
The current fad is to invest part of your proɹt in buying other
agencies. Beware! Agencies are seldom for sale unless they are in
some kind of trouble. Perhaps you give their key people ɹve-year
contracts, because you think their clients would vamoose if they
retired. But their ways are not your ways and the friction can be
abominable.
Are there more sensible ways of investing your proɹts? I know of
three:
1 You can open branch oɽces in other cities or other countries.
This has the advantage that you don’t inherit other people’s
mistakes, and you preserve you own ethos, pure and undeɹled.
The disadvantage is that your start-up costs cannot be
capitalized, so they reduce your earnings per share.
2 You can buy the building which houses your oɽce. Young &
Rubicam did this in New York two years ago.
3 You can build a reserve against a rainy day. On Wall Street
they regard this as lunacy, but when times get hard, the
lunatics may survive longer than their more adventurous
competitors.
A new gimmick is to acquire agencies and leave them to their own
devices, even allowing them to compete with you in new business

contests. One of the giant agencies has become little more than a
holding company for a miscellaneous collection of independently
operated subsidiaries.
Fortunes
The agency man who made the largest fortune was Albert Lasker of
Lord & Thomas (now Foote, Cone & Belding), followed by Ted
Bates, Jim Mathes, Ray Mithune and Cliʃ Fitzgerald. I estimate an
average of about $20,000,000 each.
Some people have made fortunes out of selling their agencies to
Interpublic, including David Williams, Tom Adams, Al Seaman and
Hagen Bayles; my guess is that they averaged about $6,000,000
each. The admirable Bill Marsteller probably made more than that
when he sold his agency to Young & Rubicam, as did the senior
partners in Esty when they sold to Bates, and the senior partners in
Compton when they sold to Saatchi & Saatchi.
Ed Ney, the head of Young & Rubicam, is the only present-day
head of an agency who has built a large nest egg without selling out
or going public. However big the egg, Ney is worth every penny.
Five tips
1 Never allow two people to do a job which one could do. George
Washington observed, ‘Whenever one person is found adequate to
the discharge of a duty by close application thereto, it is worse
executed by two persons, and scarcely done at all if three or more
are employed therein.’
2 Never summon people to your oɽce; it frightens them. Instead, go
to see them in their oɽces, unannounced. A boss who never
wanders about his agency becomes an invisible hermit.
3 If you want to get action, communicate verbally. If you want the
voting to go your way at meetings, go to the meeting. Remember
the French saying: ‘He who is absent is always wrong.’

4 It is bad manners to use products which compete with your
clients’ products. When I got the Sears Roebuck account, I started
buying all my clothes at Sears. This bugged my wife, but the
following year a convention of clothing manufacturers voted me the
best-dressed man in America. I would not dream of using any
travelers checks except American Express, or drinking any coʃee but
Maxwell House, or washing with any soap except Dove. As the
number of brands advertised by Ogilvy & Mather now exceeds two
thousand, my personal inventory is getting complicated.
5 Never allow yourself the luxury of writing letters of complaint.
After my ɹrst transatlantic voyage I wrote to my travel agency
complaining that the service on the Queen Mary was slovenly and
the decoration vulgar. Three months later we were on the point of
getting the Cunard account when they happened to see my letter. It
took them twenty years to forgive me and give us their account.

When I got the Rolls-Royce account, I followed my rule of using the client’s product. Other Rolls-Royce owners have included
Rudyard Kipling, Henry Ford I, Ernest Hemingway, Woodrow Wilson, Charlie Chaplin, Baden Powell and Lenin. Mine lasted
22 years.
1Writing that Works, by Kenneth Roman and Joel Raphaelson, Harper & Row, 1981
2When Senator Benton left the Benton & Bowles agency and joined the University of
Chicago, he found the politics much worse.
3Read Speech Dynamics by Dorothy Sarnoʃ, Doubleday, 1970
4 A commission is paid to the agency by the medium – print, television, radio – in which
the agency has bought space on behalf of its client. Under this arrangement, the agency
ɹnances services to its clients out of commissions, rather than charge fees direct to the
client.

