# 7. Wanted: a renaissance in print advertising

Paginas: 108-161

A
7
Wanted: a renaissance in print
advertising
‘God is in the details’
gency people ɹnd making television commercials far more
exciting than making advertisements for newspapers and magazines.
If their own talents are modest, the ɹlm producers can make them
look good. In winter, they enjoy going on location at glamorous
resorts, while their print colleagues are left behind in cold solitude.
The other day I read a cri de cœur from a senior executive in a
food company:
‘TV is so devouring a medium that you need to comb the
agencies to ɹnd the old sweat who knows how to put together
half-way decent print advertisements for food. The others
invent food advertising all over again, without knowing which
way is up.
The silly thing is that there are just about infallible formulae
for constructing advertisements which grab a woman’s attention
and don’t let go of it until the message has been fully planted.
Once these formulae are understood, even junior brand
managers can assemble the makings of a hard-working food
advertisement, while the bright ones will have women tearing
out your ads and shoving them into kitchen drawers in a way
you wouldn’t believe.
Try telling this to agencies. They’ve never heard of the
fundamentals of food advertising. Mention formulae to them

and their frail creative souls shrivel.’
The shortage of print know-how presents a serious problem to
cigarette manufacturers and others who are not allowed to use
television. It also presents a golden opportunity for copywriters and
art directors who take the trouble to acquire the know-how.
In this chapter I will uncork what I have learned about print
advertising. But I cannot do so without repeating some of the things
– still valid – I have written elsewhere. I never cease to be struck by
the consistency of consumer reactions to diʃerent kinds of headline,
illustration, layout and copy – year after year, country after country.
The principal sources of my information are the factor analyses
which I commission from Gallup and Robinson, the Starch
Readership Service, the results of direct response tests, and my own
observation.
Headlines
On the average, ɹve times as many people read the headlines as
read the body copy. It follows that unless your headline sells your
product, you have wasted 90 per cent of your money.
The headlines which work best are those which promise the
reader a beneɹt – like a whiter wash, more miles per gallon,
freedom from pimples, fewer cavities. Riʀe through a magazine and
count the number of ads whose headlines promise a beneɹt of any
kind.
Headlines which contain news are sure-ɹre. The news can be the
announcement of a new product, an improvement in an old product,
or a new way to use an old product – like serving Campbell’s Soup
on the rocks. On the average, ads with news are recalled by 22 per
cent more people than ads without news.
If you are lucky enough to have some news to tell, don’t bury it in
your body copy, which nine out of ten people will not read. State it
loud and clear in your headline. And don’t scorn tried-and-true
words like amazing, introducing, now, suddenly.

Ads with news are recalled by 22 per cent more people than ads without news. It does not have to be the announcement of a
new product. It can be a new way of using an old product, as in this advertisement.

I used the word ‘darling’ in the headline for this ad because a psychologist had tested hundreds of words for their emotional
impact and ‘darling’ had come out top. I was not aware that it is dangerous to use a telephone when you are taking a bath.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Headlines that oʃer the reader helpful information, like HOW TO
WIN FRIENDS AND INFLUENCE PEOPLE, attract above-average
readership.

When you advertise in local newspapers, you get better results if you include the name of each city in your headline. People
are mostly interested in what is happening where they live.
I advise you to include the brand name in your headline. If you
don’t, 80 per cent of readers (who don’t read your body copy) will
never know what product you are advertising.
If you are advertising a kind of product which is only bought by a
small group of people, put a word in your headline which will ɻag
them down, like asthma, bedwetters, women over thirty-ɹve.

On the average, long headlines sell more merchandise than short ones. This one-word headline is the exception that proves the
rule.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Starch reports that headlines with more than ten words get less
readership than short headlines. On the other hand, a study of retail
advertisements found that headlines of ten words sell more
merchandise than short headlines. Conclusion: if you need a long
headline, go ahead and write one, and if you want a short headline,
that’s all right too. The famous headline Lemon contributed a lot to
the success of Volkswagen in the United States.

Speciɹcs work better than generalities. When research reported
that the average shopper thought Sears Roebuck made a proɹt of 37
per cent on sales, I headlined an advertisement Sears makes a proɹt
of 5 per cent. This speciɹc was more persuasive than saying that
Sears’ proɹt was ‘less than you might suppose’ or something equally
vague.
Speciɹcs are more credible and more memorable than generalities. That is why I speciɹed that Sears’ proɹt is less than 5 per
cent.
When you put your headline in quotes, you increase recall by an
average of 28 per cent.
When you advertise in local newspapers, you get better results if
you include the name of each city in your headline. People are most
interested in what is happening where they live.
A psychologist ɻashed hundreds of words on a screen and used an
electric gadget to measure emotional reactions. High marks went to
darling. So I used it in a headline for Dove.
Some copywriters write tricky headlines – double meanings, puns
and other obscurities. This is counter-productive. In the average
newspaper your headline has to compete with 350 others. Readers

travel fast through this jungle. Your headline should telegraph what
you want to say.
Some headlines are ‘blind.’ They don’t say what the product is, or
what it will do for you. They are about 20 per cent below average in
recall.
Since headlines, more than anything else, decide the success or
failure of an advertisement, the silliest thing of all is to run an ad
without any headline at all – ‘a headless wonder’
If you would like more guidance on writing headlines, I commend
you to John Caples’ book Tested Advertising Methods (Prentice-Hall).

On average, helpful information is read by 75 per cent more people than copy which deals only with the product. This ad told
how Rinso gets out stains. It was read and remembered by more people than any detergent ad that had ever been researched,
but it should never have run because it was ‘oʃ strategy’ – it did not deliver the agreed selling promise that ‘Rinso Washes
Whiter.’ The photograph shows diʃerent kinds of stains. The blood was my own; I am the only copywriter who has literally
bled for his client.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
My favorite headlines
For lanolin as a cure for baldness: Have you ever seen a bald-headed
sheep?

For a pile remedy: Send us your dollar and we’ll cure your piles, or
keep your dollar and keep your piles.
Illustrations
A picture, they say, can be worth a thousand words. The cowboy
photographs for Marlboro, and Elliott Erwitt’s photographs in the
ads for Puerto Rico and France are examples.
Here are 15 ways to make your illustrations work for their living:
1 The subject of your illustration is all important. If you don’t
have a remarkable idea for it, not even a great photographer
can save you.
2 The kind of photographs which work hardest are those which
arouse the reader’s curiosity. He glances at the photograph and
says to himself, ‘What goes on here?’ Then he reads your copy
to ɹnd out. Harold Rudolph called this magic element ‘Story
Appeal,’ and demonstrated that the more of it you inject into
your photographs, the more people look at your advertisements.

As ex-chef...

...I assumed that housewives would ɹnd the Rinso photograph as interesting as I did. They didn’t.
3 When you don’t have a story to tell, it is often a good thing to
make your package the subject of your illustration.
4 It pays to illustrate the end-result of using your product.
Before-and-after photographs seem to fascinate readers. In a
study of 70 campaigns whose sales results were known, Gallup
did not ɹnd a single before-and-after campaign that did not
increase sales.

5 When I arrived on Madison Avenue, most advertisements
were illustrated with drawings. Then it was found that
photographs attracted more readers, were more believable, and
better remembered. When I took over the ‘Come to Britain’
advertising, I substituted photographs for the drawings which
the previous agency had used. Readership tripled, and so did
tourism to Britain. Direct-response advertisers ɹnd that
photographs pull more coupons than drawings, and department
stores ɹnd that they sell more merchandise. However,
photographs reproduce so badly in some newspapers that you
can get a more lifelike picture by using a line drawing. I found
that scratch-board drawings sold more Thom McCan shoes than
photographs.
When you don’t have a story to tell in your photograph, make your product the subject of your illustration. This photograph
was taken by Irving Penn, for Philippe Saalburg of FCB-Impact in Paris.
6 The use of characters known to people who see your
television commercials boosts the recall of your print
advertisements.

7 Keep your illustrations as simple as possible, with the focus of
interest on one person. Crowd scenes don’t pull.
8 Don’t show human faces enlarged bigger than life size. They
seem to repel readers.
9 Historical subjects bore the majority of readers.
10 Do not assume that subjects which interest you will
necessarily interest consumers. Being a former chef, I assumed
that everyone found chefs interesting – until I used them in an
advertisement. I got miserable readership among the
housewives who were the target audience. A friend at
Campbell’s Soup told me that he too had observed that
housewives were turned oʃ by chefs.

Before-and-After photographs fascinate readers, as in this advertisement from the Milan oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather. The plant
on the left has not been treated with Baysol, while the plant on the right has.

The eyepatch injects the magic element of ‘story appeal.’ The model was Baron Wrangell, who had a habit of swaying in front
of the camera, so that we had to strap him to an iron pipe.
11 My brother Francis once asked a Cockney editor of the Daily
Mirror (London) what kind of photographs most interested his
readers. He answered, ‘Babies with an ’eart-throb, animals with
an ’eart-throb, and what you might call sex.’ This is still true
today.
12 When I worked for Dr. Gallup, I noticed that moviegoers
were more interested in actors of their own sex than actors of
the opposite sex. People want to see movie stars with whom

they can identify. The same force is at work in advertisements.
When you use a photograph of a woman, men ignore your
advertisement.
13 Advertisements in four colors cost 50 per cent more than
black-and-white, but, on the average, they are 100 per cent
more memorable. A good bargain.
14 I cannot resist the temptation to quote a verse which gives
valuable advice on illustration:
When the client moans and sighs,
Make his logo twice the size.
If he still should prove refractory
Show a picture of his factory.
Only in the gravest cases
Should you show the clients’ faces.
15 When you advertise products for use in cooking, you attract
more readers if you show a photograph of the ɹnished dish
than the ingredients.
Warning
My former partner Douglas Haines has recently demonstrated that
the illustrations in advertisements are often misunderstood. In a pilot
study, he came across a woman who thought that the photograph of
a luxurious hotel foyer in a cigarette advertisement was a hospital
ward for cancer patients.
Body copy
‘Nobody reads body copy.’ True or false? It depends on two things.
First, on how many people are interested in the kind of product you
are advertising: a lot of women will read copy about food products,
but few will read copy about cigars. Second, on how many people
have been enticed into your ad by your illustration and headline.

The average readership of the body copy in magazine ads is about
5 per cent. That does not sound like a lot until you remember that 5
per cent of readers of the Reader’s Digest adds up to 1,500,000 men
and women.
Do not, however, address your readers as though they were
gathered together in a stadium. When people read your copy, they
are alone. Pretend you are writing each of them a letter on behalf of
your client. One human being to another, second person singular.
Queen Victoria complained that Gladstone talked to her as if he
were addressing a public meeting. She preferred Disraeli, who
talked to her like a human being. When you write copy, follow
Disraeli’s example.
It isn’t as easy as you may think. Aldous Huxley, who was once a
copywriter, said, ‘It is easier to write ten passably eʃective sonnets
than one eʃective advertisement.’
You cannot bore people into buying your product. You can only
interest them in buying it.
It pays to write short sentences and short paragraphs, and to
avoid diɽcult words. I once wrote that Dove made soap ‘obsolete,’
only to discover that the majority of housewives did not know what
the word meant. I had to change it to ‘old-fashioned.’ When I used
the word ineʃable in copy for Hathaway, a reporter telephoned to
ask me what it meant. I hadn’t the faintest idea. Nowadays I keep a
dictionary beside my telephone.

Note the editorial layout, and the story form – both plus factors. This advertisement promised ‘If it ever fails to work, we’ll ɹx
it free.’ Every morning hundreds of old and battered Zippos arrived in the mail. They were returned the same day, in perfect
working order – and no charge.

John Caples’ famous direct-mail advertisement for the U.S. School of Musk deployed story-appeal at its most eʃective.
When copywriters argue with me about some esoteric word they
want to use, I say to them, ‘Get on a bus. Go to Iowa. Stay on a farm
for a week and talk to the farmer. Come back to New York by train
and talk to your fellow passengers in the day-coach. If you still want
to use the word, go ahead.’
Copy should be written in the language people use in everyday
conversation, as in this anonymous verse:

Carnation Milk is the best in the land,
Here I sit with a can in my hand.
No tits to pull, no hay to pitch,
Just punch a hole in the son-of-a-bitch.
Don’t write essays. Tell your reader what your product will do for
him or her, and tell it with speciɹcs.
Write your copy in the form of a story, as in the advertisement
which carried the headline, ‘The amazing story of a Zippo that
worked after being taken from the belly of a ɹsh.’ One of the most
famous advertisements ever written was by John Caples for
International Correspondence School, under the headline ‘They
Laughed When I Sat Down at the Piano – But When I Started to
Play …’.
I advise you to avoid analogies. Gallup has found that they are
widely misunderstood. If you are writing copy for a face cream and
say, ‘Just as plants require moisture, so too does your skin’ readers
don’t complete the equation. If you show a Rembrandt and say, Just
as this Rembrandt portrait is a masterpiece, so too is our product,’
readers think you are selling the Rembrandt.
Stay away from superlatives like ‘Our product is the best in the
world.’ Gallup calls this Brag and Boast. It convinces nobody.
If you include a testimonial in your copy, you make it more
credible. Readers ɹnd the endorsements of fellow consumers more
persuasive than the puʃery of anonymous copywriters. Says James
Webb Young, one of the best copywriters in history, ‘Every type of
advertiser has the same problem: to be believed. The mail-order man
knows nothing so potent for this purpose as the testimonial, yet the
general advertiser seldom uses it.’

Beautiful but dumb. This ad from Switzerland would have interested more housewives if it had shown a ɹnished dish instead
of the raw ingredients. It would have been better read if it had been given a headline. And it would have been more persuasive
if the copy had contained some speciɹcs instead of vague generalities.
Sometimes you can cast your entire advertisement in the form of
a testimonial. My ɹrst ad for Austin cars took the form of a letter
from an ‘anonymous diplomat’ who was sending his son to Groton
with money he had saved driving an Austin. A combination of
snobbery and economy. Unfortunately, a Time editor guessed that I
was the anonymous diplomat, and asked the headmaster of Groton
to comment. I had to send my son to another school.

You can cast an entire advertisement in the form of a testimonial, as in this one for Austin cars. When the headmaster of
Groton discovered that the ‘anonymous diplomat’ was the author of this book, I found it expedient to send my son to another
school.
Testimonials from celebrities get high recall scores, but I have
stopped using them because readers remember the celebrity and
forget the product. What’s more, they assume that the celebrity has
been bought, which is usually the case. On the other hand,
testimonials from experts can be persuasive – like having an ex-
burglar testify that he had never been able to crack a Chubb safe.

Testimonials from experts can be extremely eʃective. This advertisement by Ogilvy & Mather appeared in Singapore.
Most copywriters believe that markdowns and special oʃers are
boring, but consumers don’t think so. They are above average in
recall.
Always try to include the price of your products. You may see a
necklace in a jeweler’s window, but you don’t consider buying it
because the price is not shown and you are too shy to go in and ask.
It is the same way with advertisements. When the price of the
product is left out, people have a way of turning the page. When
Ellerton Jetté retired as head of Hathaway and became a picture
dealer, he violated tradition in the art trade by showing the price of
the pictures in his advertisements. Unfortunately it is seldom
possible for manufacturers to do this in their advertisements,
because they cannot dictate prices to retailers. This reduces the

selling power of their ads. I don’t think it matters with package
goods, but it matters a lot with products which cost real money, like
cars and refrigerators.
This two-page advertisement for the World Wildlife Fund appeared in the New York Times. It contains 3,232 words.
I believe that all copy should be signed by the agency. This is never
done in the United States, on the ground that manufacturers buy
space to advertise their products, not their agencies. Short-sighted.
My experience suggests that when agencies sign their ads, they
produce better ones. When Reader’s Digest asked me to write an
advertisement for their magazine (see this page), they speciɹed that
I had to sign it. Golly, did I work hard on that ad. Everyone was
going to know who wrote it.
It is now the convention for agencies in Germany and France to
sign their ads. The FCB-Impact agency in Paris even gives its
copywriters a by-line. Jolly good.
Short copy or long?

All my experience says that for a great many products, long copy
sells more than short. I have failed only twice with long copy, once
for a popular-priced cigar and once for a premium-priced whiskey.
Here are nine examples which were successful:
1 The late Louis Engel wrote an advertisement of 6,450 words
for Merill Lynch. One insertion in the New York Times pulled
10,000 responses – without a coupon.

This advertisement contains 6,540 words – the most anybody has ever used in a single page. When it appeared in the New
York Times, it pulled 10,000 responses to an oʃer of a booklet buried near the end. It was written by the late Louis Engel of
Merrill Lynch.
Click here for hi-res image.

Click here for hi-res image.
2 Claude Hopkins wrote an advertisement for Schlitz beer with
ɹve pages of solid text. In a few months, Schlitz moved from
ɹfth in sales to ɹrst.
3 I wrote 700 words for Good Luck margarine. Sales responded.
4 My ɹrst ad for Puerto Rico contained 600 words (signed by
Beardsley Ruml but written by me). Fourteen thousand readers
sent in the coupon, and scores of them built factories in Puerto
Rico.

5 A series of newspaper ads for Shell carried 800 words.
Twenty-six per cent of men read more than half of them, and
Shell’s share of the market reversed a seven-year decline.
6 My partner Francis X. Houghton wrote an advertisement for
US Trust which contained 4,750 words. It was a success.
7 In advertisements for Ogilvy & Mather, I used 2,500 words.
They brought in a lot of new business.
8 In an advertisement for the World Wildlife Fund, I used 3,232
words.
9 In a series for Morgan Guaranty, I used 800 words. They did
the bank a lot of good.

For some years I used this layout in all my magazine advertisements. It gives a large photograph, a headline up to nine words,
and 240 words of copy. Recommended when your illustration is to carry the main load of selling.

This is my second perfect layout. It gives a wide, shallow photograph, a headline up to 20 words, a subhead up to 28 words,
four or ɹve cross-heads and 600 words of body copy. Recommended when your copy is more important than your
illustration.
I could give you countless other examples of long copy which has
made the cash register ring, notably for Mercedes cars. Not only in
the United States, but all over the world.
I believe, without any research to support me, that advertisements
with long copy convey the impression that you have something
important to say, whether people read the copy or not.
After studying the results of advertising for retailers, Dr. Charles
Edwards concluded that ‘the more facts you tell, the more you sell.’
An advertisement’s chance for success invariably increases as the

number
of
pertinent
merchandise
facts
included
in
the
advertisement increases.
Direct-response advertisers know that short copy doesn’t sell. In
split-run tests, long copy invariably outsells short copy.
But I must warn you that if you want your long copy to be read,
you had better write it well. In particular, your ɹrst paragraph
should be a grabber. You won’t hold many readers if you begin with
a mushy statement of the obvious like this one in an ad for a
vacation resort: ‘Going on vacation is a pleasure to which everyone
looks forward.’
A Harvard professor used to begin his series of lectures with a
sentence that took his students by the throat: ‘Cesare Borgia
murdered his brother-in-law for the love of his sister, who was the
mistress of their father – the Pope.’
How to become a good copywriter
It is no bad thing to learn the craft of advertising by copying your
elders and betters. Helmut Krone, one of the most innovative of art
directors, has said: ‘I asked one of our writers recently what was
more important, doing your own thing or making the ad as good as
it can be. The answer was, “Doing my own thing”. I disagree
violently with that. I’d like to propose a new idea for our age: until
you’ve got a better answer, you copy. I copied Bob Gage for 5 years,
I even copied the leading between his lines of type. And Bob
originally copied Paul Rand, and Rand ɹrst copied a German
typographer named Tschichold.’
I, too, started by copying. Working in a London agency, I used to
copy the best American ads. Later, I began to do my own thing.
Layouts
Advertising suʃers from sporadic epidemics of Artdirectoritis. Those
aʀicted with this disease speak in hushed voices of ‘cool grey bands
of type,’ as if the copy in advertisements was a mere design element.
They extol the importance of ‘movement,’ ‘balance’ and other

mysterious principles of design. I tell them KISS – an acronym for
Keep It Simple, Stupid.
In the early days of Ogilvy & Mather I used the same, simple
layout for all our advertisements in magazines. (See 86 and 87.)
Later, when a competitor accused me of foisting a house-style on all
our clients, I invented a second layout which allowed space for more
copy. I challenge you to invent a better layout than these.
Readers look ɹrst at the illustration, then at the headline, then at
the copy. So put these elements in that order – illustration at the
top, headline under the illustration, copy under the headline. This
follows the normal order of scanning, which is from top to bottom.
If you put the headline above the illustration, you are asking people
to scan in an order which does not ɹt their habit.
On the average, headlines below the illustration are read by 10 per
cent more people than headlines above the illustration. You may not
think the diʃerence worth writing about, but consider the fact that
10 per cent of, say, 20,000,000 readers is two million. Not to be
sneezed at. Yet in 59 per cent of magazine advertisements the
headlines are above.
Some dopes even put their headline at the bottom, under the
copy!
More people read the captions under illustrations than read the
’body copy, so never use an illustration without putting a caption
under it. Your caption should include the brand name and the
promise.

When you have to communicate a lot of diʃerent sales points, use ‘call-outs’. They are above average in recall tests.
Click here for hi-res image.
Advertising people have an unconscious belief that advertisements
have to look like advertisements. They have inherited graphic
conventions which telegraph to the reader, ‘This is only an
advertisement. Skip it.’
There is no law which says that advertisements have to look like
advertisements. If you make them look like editorial pages, you will
attract more readers. Roughly six times as many people read the
average
article
as
the
average
advertisement.
Very
few

advertisements are read by more than one reader in twenty. I
conclude that editors communicate better than admen.
Look at the news magazines which have been successful in
attracting readers: Time and Newsweek in the United States, L’Express
and Le Point in France, Der Spiegel in Germany, L’Espresso in Italy,
Cambio 16 in Spain. They all use the same graphics:
Copy has priority over illustration.
The copy is set in serif type.
Three columns of type, 35 to 45 characters wide.
Every photograph has a caption.
The copy starts with drop-initials.
The type is set black on white.

Pierre Lemonnier and Philippe Saalburg at the FCB-IMPACT agency in Paris pinched my ‘editorial’ layouts and improved
them. Their ads don’t look like ads.

All news magazines use the same format. Copy has priority over illustration. Three columns of type, set in serif faces.
Captions under photographs. But the advertisements in these magazines do not follow any of these conventions, so very few
people read them. Next time you construct an ad, pretend you are an editor; you will get more readership.
Now look at the advertisements in the same magazines. You will see
that:
Illustrations are given priority over copy.
The copy is often set in sanserif, which is hard to read; we are
accustomed to serifs in books, magazines and newspapers.

The copy is often set in one column of 120 characters or
more – too wide to be readable.
Few of the photographs have captions, because the art
directors are not aware that four times as many people read
captions as read body copy.
There are very few drop-initials, because the art directors are
not aware that they increase readership.
The copy is frequently set in reverse – white on black. I have
even seen coupons in reverse; you cannot ɹll them out unless
you have white ink in the house.
Only use two-page spreads when you have a long product and need to show it horizontally, as with this hammer. If you swear
oʃ the self-indulgence of spreads, you will be able to buy twice as many ads, thereby doubling your reach or your frequency.
If you pretend you are an editor, you will get better results. When
the magazine insists that you slug your ads with the word
advertisement, set it in italic caps, in reverse. Then nobody can read
it.
The FCB-Impact agency in Paris consistently produces better
magazine advertisements than any other agency, and none of them

look like advertisements. Hats oʃ to Pierre Lemonnier, the copywriter
who is Impact, and Philippe Saalburg who was his art director for
many years. They pinched my techniques and improved them.
If you abandon the conventional graphics of advertisements and
adopt editorial graphics, your campaigns will become islands of
good taste in an ocean of vulgarity.
Layouts are often pinned up on bulletin boards at meetings and
approved at a distance of 15 feet, as if they were posters. This leads
to setting headlines in 72-point, which is impossible to read at the
normal distance of 20 inches.

Editorial graphics also work well in newspapers. I made this launch ad for Guinness look like the front page of a newspaper.
Are two-page spreads worth the cost? They cost twice as much as
single pages, but seldom get twice the readership, or pull twice as
many coupons.

This looks like an editorial page in the French newspaper Le Monde. Actually it is an advertisement on behalf of French sheep
farmers who opposed the importation of duty-free mutton from England.

This front-page format is particularly appropriate for the announcement of a new product.

A superb example of FCB-Impact’s editorial style, this time for Mumm champagne.
Occasionally there is a functional reason for using a double-
spread, as when your product is a long one and has to be shown
horizontally. But nine times out of ten, double-spreads are no more
than
self-indulgence
by
an
art
director
who
wants
his
advertisements to look big and juicy. If you swear oʃ double-
spreads, you will be able to run twice as many advertisements for
the same money, thereby doubling your reach or your frequency.1
Posters
For better or worse, posters are still with us, so I had better tell you
what little is known about designing them to maximum eʃect. There
has been little or no research on the subject.

One in a series of posters that appeared in England during the thirties. They made Guinness part of the warp and woof of
English life, and have never been excelled – anywhere.
It pays to make your poster what Savignac called a ‘visual
scandal.’ But don’t overdo the scandal or you will stop the traɽc
and cause fatal accidents.
Your poster should deliver your selling promise not only in words,
but also pictorially. Use the largest possible type. Make your brand
name visible at a long distance. Use strong, pure colors. Never use
more than three elements in your design.
If you know more than that, please tell me.

It pays to make your poster a ‘visual scandal’, as in this British example for FCO Univas.
Subway cards
If it falls to you to produce advertisements for the subway, it may
help to know that the average rider in the New York subway will be
exposed to your advertisement for 21 minutes, which is long enough
to read quite a long message. Only 15 per cent of passengers carry
anything to read. The other 85 per cent have nothing to do but read
your copy.
Trademarks are an anachronism
In olden days, before people could read, manufacturers used
trademarks to identify their brands. If you saw a tiger on a bottle of
beer, you knew it was Tiger beer.
Many companies, unaware that consumers are no longer illiterate,
still use graphic symbols to identify their brands, and insist on them
being displayed in their advertisements. They add to the gadgetry

which clutters up layouts, and proclaim ‘this is only an
advertisement’. Readership of the advertisement is reduced.
Don’t make the mistake of designing subway cards to look like billboards – all display and only ɹve or six words. In New
York subways, the average rider is exposed to your card for twenty-one minutes and 85 per cent carry nothing else to read.
That is why I wrote 76 words for this card.
One of my clients was persuaded that his company’s symbol was
too old-fashioned and paid a fancy ɹrm $75,000 to design a new
one. At the unveiling I whispered to one of the Vice-Presidents, ‘A
tyro in our art department could have designed a better symbol for
$75.’ ‘No doubt,’ he replied, ‘but we would have argued it to death.’
Typography – ‘the eye is a creature of habit’
Good typography helps people read your copy, while bad
typography prevents them doing so.
Advertising agencies usually set their headlines in capital letters.
This is a mistake. Professor Tinker of Stanford has established that
capitals retard reading. They have no ascenders or descenders to
help you recognize words, and tend to be read letter by letter.
The eye is a creature of habit. People are accustomed to reading
books, magazines and newspapers in lower case. Look how diɽcult
it is to read the all-caps headline in the ABN advertisement opposite.
Another way to make headlines hard to read is to superimpose
them on your illustration.

Another mistake is to put a period at the end of headlines. Periods
are also called full stops, because they stop the reader dead in his
tracks. You will ɹnd no full stops at the end of headlines in
newspapers.
Yet another common mistake is to set copy in a measure which is
too wide or too narrow to be legible. People are accustomed to
reading newspapers which are set about 40 characters wide.
Which typefaces are easiest to read? Those which people are
accustomed to reading, like the Century family, Caslon, Baskerville
and Jenson. The more outlandish the typeface, the harder it is to
read. The drama belongs in what you say, not in the typeface.
Sanserif faces like this are particularly diɽcult to read. Says John
Updike, ‘Serifs exist for a purpose. They help the eye pick up the
shape of the letter. Piquant in little amounts, sanserif in page-size
sheets repels readership as wax paper repels water; it has a sleazy,
cloudy look.’
Some art directors use copy as the raw material for designing
queer shapes, thus making it illegible.
In a recent issue of a magazine I found 47 advertisements with the
copy set in reverse – white type on a black background. It is almost
impossible to read.
If you have to set very long copy, there are some typographical
devices which increase its readership:
1 A subhead of two lines, between your headline and your body
copy, heightens the reader’s appetite for the feast to come.
2 If you start your body copy with a drop-initial, you increase
readership by an average of 13 per cent.
3 Limit your opening paragraph to a maximum of 11 words.
4 After two or three inches of copy, insert a cross-head, and
thereafter throughout. Cross-heads keep the reader marching
forward. Make some of them interrogative, to excite curiosity in
the next run of copy.

Capital letters are extremely diɽcult to read. I tried to read this advertisement but gave up.

Three examples of typography which makes it impossible to read the copy...

...and one which makes it easy to read.

The headlines and copy in these advertisements would be easier to read if they had been set under the illustration, instead of
on it.

5 When I was a boy, it was common practice to square up
paragraphs. It is now known that widows – short lines –
increase readership.
6 Set key paragraphs in bold face or italic.
7 Help the reader into your paragraphs with arrowheads,
bullets, asterisks and marginal marks.
8 If you have a lot of unrelated facts to recite, don’t use
cumbersome connectives. Simply number them – as I am doing

here.
Some art directors use copy as the raw material for designing queer shapes. Don’t you think that the copy would have been
easier to read if set in columns?
This charity raised money for starving children by running advertisements set in reverse – white type on a black background.
When I suggested that they test black type on a white background, they raised twice as much money.

The prodigious Charles Saatchi wrote this advertisement and had it set in ‘reverse’ – white type on black background (left). It
would have been easier to read in black type on white background (right). Anyway, bon appetit.
9 What size type should you use?
This is 5-point, and too small to read.
This is 14-point, and too big.
This is 11-point, and about right.
10 If you use leading (line-spacing) between paragraphs, you
increase readership by an average of 12 per cent.
You may think that I exaggerate the importance of good
typography. You may ask if I have ever heard a housewife say that
she bought a new detergent because the advertisement was set in
Caslon. No. But do you think an advertisement can sell if nobody
can read it? You can’t save souls in an empty church.
As Mies van der Rohe said of architecture, ‘God is in the details’.
1 This is one of my over-simpliɹcations. Starch ɹnds that on the average, two-page spreads
achieve only 28 per cent higher rating than single pages, but Edwin Bird Wilson has drawn
attention to the fact that two-page spreads for ɹnancial advertisers achieve an average of
150 per cent more readership than single pages. The readership of ads for low-interest
products beneɹts more from big spaces than ads for high-interest products.

