# 19. What’s wrong with advertising?

Paginas: 325-341

I
19
What’s wrong with advertising?
Toynbee and Galbraith vs. Roosevelt and
Churchill
n my Confessions I quoted the classic denunciations of advertising
by Arnold Toynbee, John Kenneth Galbraith and a galaxy of earlier
economists, and wheeled up Franklin Roosevelt and Winston
Churchill as witnesses for the defense.
Twenty years later the dons are still tilting at their old windmill.
Thus a professor at the New School of Social Research in New York
teaches his students that ‘advertising is a profoundly subversive
force in American life. It is intellectual and moral pollution. It
trivializes,
manipulates,
is
insincere
and
vulgarizes.
It
is
undermining our faith in our nation and in ourselves.’
Holy smoke, is that what I do for a living?
Some of the defenders of advertising are equally guilty of
overstating their case. Said Leo Burnett, the great Chicago
advertising man: ‘Advertising is not the noblest creation of man’s
mind, as so many of its advocates would like the public to think. It
does not, single-handedly, sustain the whole structure of capitalism
and democracy and the Free World. It is just as nonsensical to
suggest that we are superhuman as to accept the indictment that we
are subhuman. We are merely human, trying to do a necessary
human job with dignity, with decency and with competence.’
My view is that advertising is no more and no less than a
reasonably eɽcient way to sell. Procter & Gamble spends more than
$600,000,000 a year on advertising. Howard Morgens, their former

president, is quoted as saying, ‘We believe that advertising is the
most eʃective and eɽcient way to sell to the consumer. If we
should ever ɹnd better methods of selling our type of products to
the consumer, we’ll leave advertising and turn to these other
methods.’
Few of us admen lie awake nights feeling guilty about the way we
earn our living. In Churchill’s phrase, we just K.B.O.1 We don’t feel
‘subversive’ when we write advertisements for toothpaste. If we do
it well, children may not have to go to the dentist so often.
I did not feel ‘evil’ when I wrote advertisements that attracted tourists and industry to a country which had been living on the
edge of starvation for 400 years.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
I did not feel ‘evil’ when I wrote advertisements for Puerto Rico.
They helped attract industry and tourists to a country which had
been living on the edge of starvation for 400 years.
I do not think that I am ‘trivializing’ when I write advertisements
for the World Wildlife Fund.
My children were grateful when I wrote an advertisement which
recovered their dog Teddy from dognappers.

Nobody suggests that the printing press is evil because it is used
to print pornography. It is also used to print the Bible. Advertising is
only evil when it advertises evil things. Nobody I know in
advertising would advertise a brothel, and some refuse to advertise
booze or cigarettes.
Left-wing economists, ever eager to snatch the scourge from the
hand of God, hold that advertising tempts people to squander
money on things they don’t need. Who are these élitists to decide
what you need? Do you need a dishwasher? Do you need a
deodorant? Do you need a trip to Rome? I feel no qualms of
conscience about persuading you that you do. What the Calvinistic
dons don’t seem to know is that buying things can be one of life’s
more innocent pleasures, whether you need them or not. Remember
your euphoria when you bought your ɹrst car? Most people enjoy
window-shopping the ads, whether for bargains or for luxuries. For
40 years I shopped the ads for country houses, and ɹnally saved up
enough money to buy one.
It is not unknown for an advertisement in a newspaper to be read
by more people than any news item. When all the New York
newspapers went on strike for several weeks in 1963, research
showed that it was the advertisements which readers missed most.
If advertising were abolished, what would be done with the
money? Would it be spent on public works? Or distributed to stock-
holders in the form of extra dividends? Or given to the media to
compensate them for the loss of their largest source of revenue?
Perhaps it could be used to reduce prices to the consumer – by about
3 per cent.2

My children were grateful when I wrote this advertisement. It recovered their dog Teddy from dognappers.
Is advertising a pack of lies?
Introducing me at an Asian Advertising Congress in New Delhi the
other day, the Vice-President and former Chief Justice of India said
that I had ‘mastered what Stephen Leacock called the art of
arresting the human intelligence long enough to get money from it.’
If there are still any natural-born liars in advertising, we are
under control. Every advertisement we write is scrutinized by
lawyers, by the National Association of Broadcasters and other such
bodies. The Better Business Bureau and the National Advertising
Review Board (in Britain, the Advertising Standards Authority)

review suspected violations of the various codes, and the Federal
Trade Commission stands ready to prosecute us for deception.
Caveat emptor has given way to caveat vendor.
But how odd that the Commission does not monitor the
advertising put out by departments of the US Government. Writes
Milton Friedman, ‘Anyone who has bought government bonds over
the past decade has been taken to the cleaners. The amount he
received on maturity would buy less in goods and services than the
amount he paid for the bond, and he has to pay taxes on the
mislabeled “interest”. Yet the Treasury continues to advertise the
bonds as “building personal security,” and a “gift that keeps on
growing”.’3
‘The dirge of our times’
While very little advertising can be convicted of crimes against
humanity, exposure to 30,000 TV commercials every year – the
average dosage in American homes – suggests that Wilfrid Sheed
had a point when he wrote that ‘the sound of selling is the dirge of
our times’. When I lived in New York, I did not notice it, either
because I was too busy to watch for more than half an hour a day
(Walter Cronkite), or because I was corrupted by familiarity. But
when I went to live in Europe, I grew accustomed to smaller doses
of advertising. Today, when I return to the United States, I am
enraged by the barrage to which I am subjected. And this does not
apply only to television. On Sundays, the New York Times often
carries 350 pages of advertisements, and some of the radio stations
devote 40 minutes in every hour to commercials. I don’t know how
all this clutter can ever be brought under control; the proɹt motive
is too strong in those who own the media.
In the average American home, the TV is turned on, if not
watched, for ɹve hours a day, which adds up to 25 years in the
average life. But don’t blame the commercials for this addiction.

The Advertising Standards Authority is the watchdog on British advertising.
Manipulation?
You may have heard it said that advertising is ‘manipulation’. I
know of only two examples, and neither of them actually happened.
In 1957 a market researcher called James Vicary hypothesized that
it might be possible to ɻash commands on television screens so fast
that the viewer would not be conscious of seeing them, but his
unconscious would see them – and obey them. He called this
gimmick ‘subliminal’ advertising, but he never even got around to
testing it, and no advertiser has ever used it. Unfortunately word of
his hypothesis found its way into the public prints, and provided
grist for the mills of the anti-advertising brigade. The British
Institute of Practitioners in Advertising solemnly banned the use of
subliminal advertising – which did not exist.
My only other example of manipulation will make you shudder. I
myself once came near to doing something so diabolical that I
hesitate to confess it even now, 30 years later. Suspecting that
hypnotism might be an element in successful advertising, I engaged a
professional hypnotist to make a commercial. When I saw it in the

projection room, it was so powerful that I had visions of millions of
suggestible consumers getting up from their armchairs and rushing
like zombies through the traɽc on their way to buy the product at
the nearest store. Had I invented the ultimate advertisement? I
burned it, and never told my client how close I had come to landing
him in a national scandal.
One way and another, the odds against your being manipulated
by advertising are now very long indeed. Even if I wanted to
manipulate you, I wouldn’t know how to circumvent the legal
regulations.
Hold your horses – I almost forgot. There is one category of
advertising which is totally uncontrolled and ɻagrantly dishonest:
the television commercials for candidates in Presidential elections.
Political chicanery
While statesmen in England, France and Persia have sometimes
consulted me, I have never taken political parties as clients of
Ogilvy & Mather. First, because they would preoccupy the best
brains of the agency, to the detriment of its permanent clients.
Second, because they are bad credit risks. Third, because it would
be unfair to those people in the agency who pray for the victory of
the opposing party. And ɹnally, because it would be diɽcult to
avoid the chicanery which is endemic in all political campaigns.
The ɹrst politician to use television was Governor Dewey in his
1950 campaign for the governorship of New York. On one program,
Happy Felton, the entertainer, interviewed passers-by under the
marquee of the Astor Hotel on 7th Avenue. They would say what
interested them in the campaign, and ask questions of the Governor.
Dewey watched them on a monitor in the studio, and answered
their questions. The day before, his staʃ had carefully selected the
passers-by. They had told them what they were interested in, and
rehearsed their questions. On the last day of the campaign, Dewey
was on television from 6 am to midnight. People could telephone
the studio. Four women on camera answered the calls and passed

along the questions for Dewey to answer. A member of his staʃ was
in a phone booth at the corner drugstore with a pile of nickels.
Governor Dewey, a scientiɹc demagogue.
Dewey, the ex-District Attorney, the battler against corruption,
the Governor of the State, thought of himself as an honorable man.
It never occurred to him that he was involved in deception. I doubt
that it would occur to anyone, honorable or dishonorable, to pull
such a play today, thirty years later. Times change.

The bally-hoo of American politics. Should American political advertising have to pass the same scrutiny as commercial
advertising?
Dewey was a scientiɹc demagogue. Before speaking on major
issues, he used research to ɹnd out which policies had the widest
popular support and then put them forward as if he believed in
them.
In his book The Duping of the American Voter,4 my colleague
Robert Spero analyzed the commercials used by Kennedy, Johnson,
Nixon, Ford and Carter. He concluded that they were ‘the most
deceptive, misleading, unfair and untruthful of all advertising … the
sky is the limit with regard to what can be said, what can be
promised, what accusations can be made, what lies can be told’.
The nine Federal agencies which regulate advertising for products
have no say in political advertising. The broadcasting networks,
which turn down half the commercials for products submitted to

them because they violate their codes, do not apply any code
whatever to political commercials. Why not? Because political
advertising is considered ‘protected speech’ under the First
Amendment of the US Constitution. The networks are obliged to
broadcast every political commercial submitted to them, however
dishonest.
In 1964, Johnson’s commercials disparaged Senator Goldwater
with a cynical dishonesty which would never be tolerated in
commercials for toothpaste. They gave voters to understand that
Goldwater was an irresponsible, trigger-happy ogre who would start
nuclear wars at the drop of a hat. Johnson was presented as a dove
of peace.
What had happened was this. Goldwater, one of the most decent
men in public life, had been asked by an interviewer to diʃerentiate
between the reliability and the accuracy of guided missiles. He had
replied that they were accurate enough ‘to lob one into the men’s
room at the Kremlin’. And he had told another interviewer that it
would be possible to destroy the forests in North Vietnam by using
low-yield atomic weapons. These were no more than theoretical
answers to speculative questions. Goldwater did not recommend the
use of atomic weapons, and Johnson knew this perfectly well.

In 1964, Barry Goldwater’s presidential campaign was eʃectively scuppered by unscrupulous commercials put out by his
opponent, Lyndon Johnson.
Nixon’s campaigns against Hubert Humphrey and George
McGovern were less dishonest, but they too violated the network
code for product advertising.
Jimmy Carter’s commercials pictured him as an innocent
newcomer to politics, with no political organization – a poor farmer
with no money. Nothing could have been further from the truth, but
the voting public swallowed it. Gerald Ford, his Republican
opponent, used commercials which were relatively honest – and lost
the election.

The ‘down-home’ image of Jimmy Carter’s campaign belied the reality – a highly professional, and costly, publicity machine.
The Kennedys and the Rockefellers have proved that it helps a
politician to be rich. In his campaign for election to a second term as
Democratic Governor of West Virginia, Jay Rockefeller spent
$11,000,000 of his own money and defeated his Republican
opponent, who spent only $800,000. Rockefeller’s commercials were
unusually statesmanlike, and a survey found that the people of West
Virginia were not shocked by his expenditure. Even his uncle Nelson
Rockefeller had not spent so much in his re-election campaign for
Governor of New York.
In a period when television commercials are often the decisive
factor in deciding who shall be the next President of the United
States, dishonest advertising is as evil as stuɽng the ballot box.
Perhaps the advertising people who have allowed their talents to be
prostituted for this villainy are too naïve to understand the
complexity of the issues.
The United States is almost the only country which allows
political candidates to buy commercial time. In England, France and

other democracies, the networks allot free time to serious discussion
of the issues.
Could political commercials be banned in the United States? Not
without violating the US Constitution. Could they be regulated, like
every other kind of advertising? That too would be illegal.
Can you imagine Abraham Lincoln hiring an agency to produce
30-second commercials about slavery?
Down with billboards
Highways with billboards have three times as many accidents as
highways without billboards. President Eisenhower said, ‘I am
against those billboards that mar our scenery, but I don’t know what
I can do about it.’ In California, Governor Pat Brown said, ‘When a
man throws an empty cigarette package from an automobile, he is
liable to a ɹne of $50. When a man throws a billboard across a
view, he is richly rewarded.’
Bob Moses, the illustrious Parks Commissioner of New York State,
said that ‘eʃrontery and impudence can go no further. The time for
compromise with these stubborn and ruthless people is over.’ But
the majority of legislators are still ready to compromise with them.
Here is how a State Senator explains it:
‘The billboard lobby shrewdly puts many legislators in its debt
by giving them free space during election time. The lobby is
savage against the legislator who dares oppose it by favoring
anti-billboard laws. It subsidizes his opposition, foments
political trouble in his home district, donates billboards to his
opponents and sends agents to spread rumours among his
constituents.’
Says the New York Times, ‘the forces of ugliɹcation are rampant. The
Illinois Democrat and the Florida Republican are united in their
determination to protect the ɹnancial welfare of the billboard
industry at the expense of millions of ordinary tourists who would
like to see some scenery as they drive.’

When President Johnson sent the Highway Beautiɹcation Bill to Congress, the head of one billboard company claimed that
‘There are times when most people would rather look at posters than scenery.’
The Highway Beautiɹcation Act actually states that it is the
purpose of Congress to promote outdoor advertising. Some
departments of the Federal Government are users of billboards. The
Internal Revenue Service once accepted the free gift of 4,000 empty
billboards and used them to urge taxpayers to make honest returns.
One day Monty Spaght, then President of Shell, asked me, ‘We get
a lot of letters protesting against our use of billboards. Do we need
billboards?’ I replied, ‘If you give up billboards, you can still use
newspapers and magazines and radio and television. That ought to
be enough.’ Shell gave up billboards.
Billboards represent less than 2 per cent of total advertising in the
United States. I cannot believe that the free-enterprise system would
be irreparably damaged if they were abolished. Who is in favor of
them? Only the people who make money out of them. What kind of
people are they? When President Johnson sent the Highway
Beautiɹcation Bill to Congress, the head of one billboard company
protested that Johnson had ‘taken a stand in favor of an abstract
concept – beauty. Some people like scenery and are interested in it.

Others can take it or leave it. There are times when most people would
rather look at posters than scenery.’
The Roadside Business Association has said, ‘We do not believe
that everyone is for beauty in all things.’
On a Sunday morning in 1958, vigilantes sawed down seven
billboards along a highway in New Mexico. Citizens of surrounding
areas expressed support for them. One telephone call complained
that the vigilantes had not cut down enough billboards, and another
that they had frustrated the plan of a large group of citizens who
had scheduled a mass burning of billboards for later in the month.
The vigilantes were never arrested.
In 1961 the Quebec government sent hundreds of men with axes
to chop down billboards. In 1963 the head of the New York State
Thruway Authority knocked down 53 billboards in a dawn raid; he
was sick of legal bickering. But in June 1982, a judge in Oregon
overturned an ordinance that required the removal of billboards on
the ground that it was a denial of free speech. The battle goes on.
Can advertising sell bad products?
It is often charged that advertising can persuade people to buy
inferior products. So it can – once. But the consumer perceives that
the product is inferior and never buys it again. This causes grave
ɹnancial loss to the manufacturer, whose proɹts come from repeat
purchases.
The best way to increase the sale of a product is to improve the
product. This is particularly true of food products; the consumer is
amazingly quick to notice an improvement in taste and buy the
product more often. I have always been irritated by the lack of
interest brand managers take in improving their products. One
client warned me, ‘You are too prone to criticize our products. We
could ɹnd it easier to accept criticism of our wives.’
Not enough information
Do you think advertising gives you enough information about
products? I don’t.

Recently, I smashed my car beyond repair and had to buy a new
one. For six months I read all the car ads in search of information.
All I found was fatuous slogans and ɻatulent generalities. Car
manufacturers assume that you are not interested in facts. Indeed,
their advertising is not aimed at consumers. Its purpose is to win an
ovation when it is projected on the screen at hoopla conventions of
dealers. Show-biz commercials have that eʃect. Sober, factual
advertising does not. If their engineering was as incompetent as
their advertising, their cars would not run ten miles without a
breakdown.
When I advertised Rolls-Royce, I gave the facts – no hot air, no
adjectives. Later, my partner Hank Bernhard used equally factual
advertising for Mercedes. In every case sales went up dramatically –
on peppercorn budgets.
I have written factual advertising for a bank, for gasoline, for a
stockbroker, margarine, foreign travel and many other products. It
always sells better than empty advertising.
Before I started writing advertisements, I spent three years selling
Aga cooking stoves to Scottish housewives, door to door. All I did
was give my customers the facts. It took me 40 minutes to make a
sale; about 3,000 words. If the people who write Detroit advertising
had started their careers as door-to-door salesmen, you and I would
be able to ɹnd the facts we need in their advertisements.
Summary
1 Whether economists are right or wrong in proclaiming that
advertising is an ‘economic’ waste, manufacturers do not regard it as
a commercial waste.
2 Apart from political advertising, which is ɻagrantly dishonest,
advertising is now far more honest than consumers realize.
3 The world would be a safer, prettier place without billboards.

4 The majority of campaigns fail to give consumers enough
information.
1Keep buggering on.
2Automobile manufacturers spend 1 per cent of their revenue on advertising. Appliance
manufacturers 2 per cent. Soft drinks 4 per cent. Food manufacturers and brewers 5 per
cent.
3Free to Choose, Harcourt Brace, 1980
4The Duping of the American Voter Copyright © 1980 by Robert Spero, Harper & Row, NY

