# 9. Advertising corporations

Paginas: 187-203

O
9
Advertising corporations
‘With public opinion on its side, nothing can
fail’
- Abraham Lincoln
nce upon a time, the head of a big corporation went into
Cartier’s and ordered a diamond bracelet for his wife. ‘Send the bill
to my oɽce,’ said he. Nothing doing – Cartier had never heard of
his corporation. The next morning he instructed his agency to
prepare a corporate advertising campaign.
Eighty-one out of the hundred biggest American corporations
advertise their corporations as distinct from their products, and
spend about $500,000,000 a year in the process. Most of them make
a hash of it. However, if well planned and executed, corporate
advertising can be a proɹtable investment. Opinion Research
Corporation has found that people who know a company well are
ɹve times more likely to have a favorable opinion of it.
Corporate advertising can improve the morale of your employees;
who wants to work for an outɹt that nobody has ever heard of? It
can also make it easier to recruit better people, at all levels. And, I
believe, it can make your corporation a more seductive suitor in
takeover bids. Discretion stops me naming a rich corporation which
has recently failed in several takeover bids because its image is
unattractive.
Can corporate advertising make a good impression on the
investment community? Yes it can, and this is the unspoken purpose
of most such campaigns. A study conducted at Northwestern

University examined the stock performance of 731 corporations, and
found that corporate advertising had an average positive inɻuence
of 2 per cent on the price of their stock. If you think this trivial,
reɻect that if a corporation has a market value of forty billion
dollars – and some do – that extra 2 per cent adds up to
$800,000,000. Not to be sneezed at.
DuPont has run corporate advertising for 47 years, General
Electric for 62 years, American Telephone for 75 years, US Steel for
46 years, and Container Corporation for 50 years. But the majority
of corporate advertising campaigns are aborted too soon to achieve
any measurable objective.
You cannot rely on short-term advertising to turn the title of
hostile public opinion in your favor, to boost the price of your stock
or to put a halo around your reputation. In 1941, when Texaco was
accused of selling oil to the Nazis, they assumed sponsorship of the
Metropolitan Opera on radio, but it took a long time for this lovely
antidote to exorcize their bad publicity.

This advertisement summarizes the case for corporate advertising.
Click here for hi-res image.
Most corporate campaigns are short-lived because they don’t start
with any clear objective, and because research is not used to track
their progress. A glowing exception is DuPont, who for many years
measured progress after each television program.
Corporate campaigns seldom have more than one supporter – the
Chief Executive Oɽcer. He alone has the vision to recognize its
long-term value. His marketing executives regard any diversion of
advertising dollars from their products as a frivolous waste of

money, and his ɹnancial oɽcers cast greedy eyes on the
appropriation whenever there is a short-fall in earnings.
Sears devotes most of its gigantic advertising budget to price-oʃ merchandise, but in 1961 I persuaded them to add a
campaign which would burnish their corporate image by promulgating their policies. Some of their executives thought it was a
pansy waste of money because it did not directly sell merchandise, but Chairman Kelstadt took a longer view. When Joe
Cushman succeeded Kelstadt, he told me, ‘my father was ashamed when I went to work for Sears. Today, nobody is ashamed
to work for Sears. Thank you.’
The copy in most corporate advertisements is distinguished by a
self-serving, ɻatulent pomposity which deɹes reading, and agencies
waste endless hours concocting slogans of incredible fatuity.
Consider these beauties:
Diamond Shamrock: The resourceful company.
Honeywell: The automation company.
Boise Cascade: A company worth looking at.
Georgia Paciɹc: The growth company.
Dravo: A company of uncommon enterprise.
Textron: THE company. (sic)

General Motors: People building transportation to serve PEOPLE.
Toyota: Serving PEOPLE’S needs in a hundred basic ways.
Firestone: As long as Firestone keeps thinking about PEOPLE,
PEOPLE will keep thinking about Firestone.
Siemens: Siemens turns ideas into PEOPLE.
ITT: The best ideas are the ideas that help PEOPLE.
General Electric: 100 years of progress for PEOPLE.
Western Electric: We make things that bring PEOPLE closer.
US Steel: We’re involved.
Crown Zellerbach: We help make it happen.
Sperry Rand: We understand how important it is to listen.
Rockwell International: Where science gets down to business.
J. C. Penney: We know what you’re looking for.
Chemetron: We’re basic to success.

More image-building for Sears. Who would expect Sears to sell mink?
Notice that all these bromides are interchangeable – any company
could use any of them. They generally appear at the bottom of
advertisements, where nobody reads them, and, by cluttering up the
layout, they reduce readership of the copy.
Many corporate campaigns fail because they are under-funded.
Companies which spend millions on advertising their brand names
are curiously stingy when it comes to their corporate campaigns.
The most sensible way to set the budget is to ‘analyse the task.’ How

much will it cost to achieve a speciɹc goal among a speciɹc
audience?
Another common mistake is to conɹne the campaign to magazines
and newspapers. When you add television, tracking studies record a
dramatic increase in penetration.
A word of warning to Chief Executive Oɽcers: if you appear in
your own commercials, you will be recognized wherever you go and
thus become an easier target for kidnappers. More serious, you may
not say your lines as well as a professional announcer.
Alphabet soup
Whatever you do, for goodness sake, don’t change the name of your
corporation to initials. Everybody knows what IBM, ITT, CBS and
NBC are, but how many of the following can you identify: AC, ADP,
AFIA, AIG, AM, AMP, BBC (Brown Boveri and British Broadcasting),
CBI, CF, CNA, CPT, CEX, DHL, FMC, GA, GE, GM, GMAC, GMC,
GTE, HCA, IM, INA, IU, JVC, MCI, NIB, NCP, NCR, NDS, NEC, NLT,
NT, OPIC (not to be confused with OPEC), TIE, TRW, UBS. Yet this
is how 37 corporations sign their advertisements. It will take them
many years and many millions of dollars to teach their initials to
their publics. What a waste of money.
Can advertising inɻuence legislation?
William H. Vanderbilt, the railroad tycoon, used to say, ‘The public
be damned.’ Abraham Lincoln thought otherwise: ‘With public
opinion on its side, nothing can fail. With public opinion against it,
nothing can succeed.’
Where do people get their information on public issues? Largely
from television, and less from the newscasts than from folk heroes
like Robert Blake and Jane Fonda. Ms. Fonda says things like this on
television:
‘You’d better get the guts to stand up to the black shadow of oil
before it spills across your desk, oozes into your campaign
coʃers, seals your ears and blackens your hearts. Because if you

do not hear our cries now, you will harvest the grapes of
wrath.’
Just try writing advertisements which can deal with this kind of
rhetoric.
In recent years corporations have been using advertising in
attempts to inɻuence public opinion on such issues as energy,
nationalization and foreign imports. The trouble is that very few
readers believe what corporations say. In 1979-80, the Media
Institute studied the image of businessmen as they are portrayed in
television programs. Two out of three are portrayed as foolish,
greedy or criminal. They are seldom shown doing anything socially
useful. (I know many businessmen who devote so much time to
‘socially useful’ things, it’s a wonder their stockholders put up with
it.)
This campaign emphasized IBM’s involvement in people’s daily lives – in this case, how IBM helped speed up traɽc in New
York’s rush hour.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Most senior executives are curiously unaware of what goes on in
the liberal community. As a recent article in the Harvard Business

Review said, ‘While businessmen were minding their own business,
intellectuals were busy developing a powerful case against
capitalism.’ Political and social naïveté can be a handicap when
companies run into political diɽculty.
Some advertising campaigns seem to have been successful in
inɻuencing legislation. Bethlehem Steel, for example, used
advertising to win public support for their position on imported
steel. I am told that it helped the passage of a bill protecting the
steel industry.
When the forest industry was under attack by environmentalists
for
being
irresponsible
in
its
use
of
national
resources,
Weyerhaeuser used television advertising to demonstrate that they
are highly responsible. Research indicated that the advertising
worked. The attacks abated.
Ads like this helped pass a bill protecting the industry against the dumping of foreign steel.

A few years ago, the British Labour Party announced their
intention to nationalize the banks. Six months of well argued
advertising produced good research numbers, and the banks have
not been nationalized.
For three years Eli Lilly used television advertising to argue the
case against legislation that would have required doctors to
prescribe generic medicines. It is thought that the campaign may
have helped to head oʃ this threat to their bread and butter.
Advertising whose purpose is to inɻuence public opinion is more
likely to be successful if it follows these principles:
If the issue is complicated, and it almost always is, simplify it as much as
you reasonably can. For example, the consumer is bombarded with
confusing information about what food is nutritious, or even safe. In
1981 General Foods ran a series of advertisements which gave
people simple advice on the subject.
A classic example of simplifying a complicated issue was the
headline on a Chesapeake and Ohio advertisement: ‘A Hog Can
Cross the Country Without Changing Trains – But YOU Can’t!’
But watch out. Simplistic distortion can insult people’s intelligence
and do you more harm than good.

This corporate campaign was created to please the governments of countries in which Esso did business.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Present your case in terms of the reader’s self-interest. For some years
Mobil has been trying to inɻuence public opinion by running
exceptionally trenchant advertisements. The head of Mobil says that
they have produced positive results, but I have reason to think that
they work better with the well-educated minority than with the
public at large. The advertisements make little or no appeal to the
ordinary citizen’s self-interest.

In the author’s judgment, this is the best corporate campaign by any retailer. The copy was written by Leslie Pearl, and
appeared in the New York Times three times a week for 26 years. Woven into the copy was the idea that Wallachs not only
sold superior clothes, but also gave unusually attentive, personal and friendly service. Before the campaign started, a survey
was conducted to see how men rated the men’s clothing stores in New York. Wallachs came in last. Ten years later Wallachs
headed the list.

This may well be the best advertisement about a public issue that has ever appeared.
Click here for hi-res image.

A corporate advertisement in a series by Ogilvy & Mather for General Foods. A complicated subject expounded with
simplicity.
ARMCO used corporate advertising to tell the people in Houston what they were doing about pollution in the ship channel.

Mobil seeks to inɻuence public opinion in advertisements which are remarkable for their no-holds-barred copy. They appeal
to the educated minority.
Disarm with candor. ARMCO had a reputation as the worst polluter
in Houston. They tackled the problem with advertising that told
how they had changed their ways. It produced a measurable
improvement in their reputation.
Give both sides of the issue. In confronting the anti-highway and anti-
strip-mining pressure groups, Caterpillar Tractor gave both sides of
the issue.
Know who your target is. You can reach Congressmen and others in
the Federal Government with a campaign that need not cost more
than $800,000 a year, but it Won’t do you much good. Unless
legislators know that you are talking to their constituents, they turn a
deaf ear. As Ralph Nader is reported to have said, ‘If you are weak
on the streets, you are weak.’
When Congress was considering a windfall proɹts tax on oil
companies, several of them ran argumentative advertisements

directed to Congressmen. But social and political pressures were so
great, and demagoguery so rampant, that the bill was enacted. The
campaign might have worked if it had started earlier, if it had been
addressed to the general public, and if it had been written with more
balance.
Many corporations have told me that they need only reach ‘thought-
leaders’ – the people who inɻuence other people. This sounds
sensible, and not too expensive. The problem is that nobody really
knows who the thought-leaders are. Bishops? Bartenders? Political
busybodies? Garrulous taxi-drivers? Thought-leaders are spread
throughout the population.
In most cases your only hope of making a dent on public opinion
is to advertise to the public at large – and to use television. Television
is the battleground on which public opinion is formed.
Container Corporation started advertising in 1937. The campaign was a succès d’estime among highbrow laymen, but I
denounced it as an exercise in pretension. Forty-ɹve years later the campaign is still running, and I have come to think it is
one of the best corporate campaigns that has ever appeared. Even when I don’t read the copy, I recognize the sponsor – like
recognizing a man who dresses unlike other men. He looks diʃerent, so he must be diʃerent. There lies the secret; the
campaign has diʃerentiated Container Corporation.

Bad news
If your purpose is to aʃect legislation, the Internal Revenue Service
does not allow the cost of your advertising to be treated as a
business expense. Worse still, the television networks will not accept
‘advocacy’ advertising. So you have to use local spots, market by
market. You will probably end up with a combination of local
television, the Washington Post, the New York Times, and some
upper-crust magazines.
Most advocacy campaigns are too little and too late. They are
addressed to the wrong audience, lack a deɹned purpose, don’t go
on long enough, are weak in craftsmanship, and advocate a hopeless
cause. So they fail.
Advocacy advertising is not a job for beginners.

