# 14. Competing with Procter & Gamble

Paginas: 247-250

I
14
Competing with Procter &
Gamble
Who’s afraid of the big bad wolf?
f you are going to advertise disposable diapers, fabric softeners,
cleansers, toothpaste, soap or dishwashing liquids, you are going to
ɹnd yourself up against Procter & Gamble. They have market shares
of at least 40 per cent in all these categories, plus powerful positions
in shampoo, cake mix, coʃee, anti-perspirants and home
permanents. They spend $700,000,000 a year on advertising, more
than any other company, and their sales are $12,000,000,000 a
year.
Your chances of competing successfully against this juggernaut
will be improved if you understand the reasons for its overwhelming
success, so I am going to tell you what my partner Kenneth Roman
has learned about them.
First, P&G is disciplined. Their guiding philosophy is to plan
thoroughly, minimize risk, and stick to their proven principles.
To get a broad trial quickly, they distribute home-delivered
samples on a massive scale. In 1977 their Chairman said, ‘The
largest part of our initial investment is usually in the form of
introductory sampling.…Only when satisɹed customers have had
ɹrsthand experience with the product will the elements of the
marketing mix, such as advertising and selling, be fully productive.’
They never enter small categories unless they expect them to
grow, and they set out to dominate every category they enter. By
building huge volume, they achieve lower manufacturing costs than

their competitors, and this gives them higher proɹt margins, or
permits them to sell at a lower price.
They often enter more than one brand in a category, and allow
each brand to compete with its sibling – with no holds barred.
They use market research to identify consumer needs. Says Ed
Harness, their former Chairman, ‘We are forever trying to see what
lies around the corner.…We study the consumer and try to identify
new trends in tastes, needs, environment and living habits.’
Most important of all, they have a way of creating products which
are superior to their competitors’. And, by blind in-home tests, they
make sure that the superiority is apparent to the consumer. Says
Harness, ‘The key to successful marketing is superior product
performance.…If the consumer does not perceive any real beneɹts
in the brand, then no amount of ingenious advertising and selling
can save it.’
When they launch new brands, they advertise them heavily, and
they support their successful brands with large budgets –
$29,000,000 for Crest, $24,000,000 for High Point, $19,000,000 for
Pampers, $17,000,000 for Tide, and so on.
Their test-marketing is unbelievably thorough – and patient. They
tested Folger’s regional expansion program for six years before
moving into the East. ‘Patience,’ says their President, ‘is one of the
virtues of this company.’ They would rather be right than ɹrst. Only
three products in the history of P&G have gone national without
being test-marketed for at least six months. Two of them failed.
My admiration for their advertising principles is boundless, not
least because they are the same as my own. They use research to
determine the most eʃective strategy, and never change a successful
strategy. Their strategies for Tide, Crest, Zest and Ivory Bar have not
changed for thirty years.
They always promise the consumer one important beneɹt. When
they perceive that there is an opportunity to increase sales by
promising more than one, they sometimes run two campaigns at the
same time – often in the same medium.
They believe that the ɹrst duty of advertising is to communicate
eʃectively, not to be original or entertaining, and they measure

communication at three stages: before the copy is written, after the
commercials are produced, and in test markets. But, unlike me, they
do not believe that testing can measure persuasion.
All their commercials include a ‘moment of conɹrmation’. They
show a woman squeezing the Charmin and attesting to its softness.
They show a housewife observing that Era gets out grease spots.
In 60 per cent of their commercials they use demonstrations,
showing how Bounty absorbs more liquid, how Top Job cleans
better than straight ammonia, how Zest leaves no ɹlm.
Their commercials talk directly to the consumer, using language
and situations that are familiar to her. If the product is for use in the
bathroom, they show it in a bathroom, not in a laboratory.
They go to great pains to communicate the brand name, verbally
and visually. Most of their names are short and simple. They appear
within the ɹrst ten seconds of the commercial, and an average of
three times thereafter.
Their commercials deliver the promise verbally, and reinforce it
with supers. And they usually end with a repetition of the promise.
They tend to use a lot of words, sometimes more than a hundred in
a 30-second commercial.
When Procter & Gamble uses a continuing character to sell a
brand, he or she is always an unknown actor or actress, never a
celebrity.
Less than half their commercials include a ‘reason why’. They
have come to think it suɽcient to show consumers what the product
will do for them, without explaining why it does it.
Very often they also show the users of their products deriving
some emotional beneɹt. Like ‘You’ll be more appreciated if you use
Dash.’
They use television techniques which have been proved to sell –
however much their agencies may regard them as old hat. Notably
slices of life, user testimonials and talking heads.
Until 1976, Procter & Gamble eschewed music, but they are now
using it, albeit in only 10 per cent of their commercials. And they
now use a touch of humor in some of their commercials.

While their commercials are often extremely competitive, they do
not spend their money naming competing brands. They refer to ‘the
other leading detergent’.
Once they have evolved a campaign that works, they keep it
running for a long time, in many cases for ten years or more. But
they continually test new executions of the ongoing strategy.
Once they establish an advertising budget, they continually test
higher levels of expenditure.
Only 30 per cent of their budgets go into prime evening time. The
rest is divided between daytime and fringe. Instead of using 30-
second spots exclusively, they have been using an increasing
number of 45s, ɹnding that the extra 15 seconds allows for better
‘situation development’ and ‘viewer involvement’.
Almost all P&G brands are advertised throughout the year. They
have found that this works better than ‘ɻighting’ – running them six
weeks on, six weeks oʃ. It also provides considerable cost savings.
After competing with P&G in several categories for 30 years, my
respect for their acumen knows no bounds. However, they are not
infallible. They can be beaten, for all their research and all their
testing. Some of their products have failed, including Teel liquid
detergent, Drene shampoo, Big Top peanut butter and Certain
bathroom tissues.
Their Achilles’ heel is their consistency. They are always
predictable. It helps to win battles when you can anticipate the
enemy’s strategy.
The best of all ways to beat P&G is, of course, to market a better
product. Bell Brand potato chips defeated P&G’s Pringles because
they tasted better. And Rave overtook Lilt in less than a year
because, not containing ammonia, it is a better product. I cannot
refrain from adding that both these giant-killers are advertised by
guess who?

