# 2. How to produce advertising that sells

Paginas: 11-47

P
2
How to produce advertising that
sells
retend you started work this morning in my agency, and that
you have dropped by my oɽce to ask for advice. I will start with
some generalities about how to go about your work. In later
chapters I will give you more speciɹc advice on producing
advertisements for magazines, newspapers, television and radio. I
ask you to forgive me for oversimplifying some complicated
subjects, and for the dogmatism of my style – the dogmatism of
brevity. We are both in a hurry.
The ɹrst thing I have to say is that you may not realize the
magnitude of diʃerence between one advertisement and another.
Says John Caples, the doyen of direct response copywriters:
‘I have seen one advertisement actually sell not twice as much,
not three times as much, but 19½ times as much as another. Both
advertisements occupied the same space. Both were run in the
same publication. Both had photographic illustrations. Both had
carefully written copy. The diʃerence was that one used the right
appeal and the other used the wrong appeal.’1
The wrong advertising can actually reduce the sales of a product. I
am told that George Hay Brown, at one time head of marketing
research at Ford, inserted advertisements in every other copy of the
Reader’s Digest. At the end of the year, the people who had not been
exposed to the advertising had bought more Fords than those who
had.

In another survey it was found that consumption of a certain
brand of beer was lower among people who remembered its
advertising than those who did not. The brewer had spent millions
of dollars on advertising which un-sold his beer.
I sometimes wonder if there is a tacit conspiracy among clients,
media and agencies to avoid putting advertising to such acid tests.
Everyone involved has a vested interest in prolonging the myth that
all advertising increases sales to some degree. It doesn’t.

Before I wrote this – the most famous of all automobile ads – I did my homework. It ran only in two newspapers and two
magazines, at a cost of $25,000. The following year, Ford based their multi-million dollar campaign on the claim that their
car was even quieter than a Rolls.
Click here for text.
Do your homework
You don’t stand a tinker’s chance of producing successful advertising
unless you start by doing your homework. I have always found this
extremely tedious, but there is no substitute for it.
First, study the product you are going to advertise. The more you
know about it, the more likely you are to come up with a big idea

for selling it. When I got the Rolls-Royce account, I spent three
weeks reading about the car and came across a statement that ‘at
sixty miles an hour, the loudest noise comes from the electric clock.’
This became the headline, and it was followed by 607 words of
factual copy.
Later, when I got the Mercedes account, I sent a team to the
Daimler-Benz headquarters in Stuttgart. They spent three weeks
taping interviews with the engineers. From this came a campaign of
long, factual advertisements which increased Mercedes sales in the
United States from 10,000 cars a year to 40,000.
When I was asked to do the advertising for Good Luck margarine,
I was under the impression that margarine was made from coal. But
ten days’ reading enabled me to write a factual advertisement which
worked.
Same thing with Shell gasoline. A brieɹng from the client
revealed something which came as a surprise to me; that gasoline
has several ingredients, including Platformate, which increases
mileage. The resulting campaign helped to reverse a seven-year
decline in Shell’s share-of-market.

I resigned the Rolls-Royce account when they sent ɹve hundred defective cars to the United States. Two years later we took
Mercedes, and sent a team to interview their engineers in Stuttgart. From this sprang a campaign of long factual
advertisements which increased sales from 10,000 cars a year to 40,000.

When I got a margarine account, I was under the impression that margarine was made from coal. Ten days reading the
literature taught me otherwise.
If you are too lazy to do this kind of homework, you may
occasionally luck into a successful campaign, but you will run the
risk of skidding about on what my brother Francis called ‘the
slippery surface of irrelevant brilliance.’
Your next chore is to ɹnd out what kind of advertising your
competitors have been doing for similar products, and with what
success. This will give you your bearings.
Now comes research among consumers. Find out how they think
about your kind of product, what language they use when they
discuss the subject, what attributes are important to them, and what
promise would be most likely to make them buy your brand.

If you cannot aʃord the services of professionals to do this
research, do it yourself. Informal conversations with half-a-dozen
housewives can sometimes help a copywriter more than formal
surveys in which he does not participate.
Positioning
Now consider how you want to ‘position’ your product. This curious
verb is in great favor among marketing experts, but no two of them
agree what it means. My own deɹnition is ‘what the product does,
and who it is for.’ I could have positioned Dove as a detergent bar
for men with dirty hands, but chose instead to position it as a toilet
bar for women with dry skin. This is still working 25 years later.
I positioned Dove as a toilet bar for women with dry skin, and used a promise which had won in test: ‘Dove creams your skin
while you bathe.’

In Norway, the SAAB car had no measurable proɹle. We
positioned it as a car for winter. Three years later it was voted the
best car for Norwegian winters.
To advertise a car that looked like an orthopedic boot would have
defeated me. But Bill Bernbach and his merry men positioned
Volkswagen as a protest against the vulgarity of Detroit cars in those
days, thereby making the Beetle a cult among those Americans who
eschew conspicuous consumption.
Robert Townsend, the eccentric head of Avis, asked me to do his advertising. When conɻict with another client forced me to
refuse, Doyle Dane Bernbach created one of the most powerful campaigns in the history of advertising. ‘When you’re only
Number 2, you try harder. Or else.’ This diabolical positioning made life miserable for Hertz, who was Number 1.
Click here for hi-res image.

Doyle Dane Bernbach positioned Volkswagen as a protest against Detroit, thereby making the Beetle a cult among non-
conformists. The copywriter was Julian Koenig, the art director Helmut Krone. Sales of the car went up to 500,000 cars a
year.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Brand image
You now have to decide what ‘image’ you want for your brand.
Image means personality. Products, like people, have personalities,
and they can make or break them in the market place. The
personality of a product is an amalgam of many things – its name,

its packaging, its price, the style of its advertising, and, above all,
the nature of the product itself.
An essay in the art of image-building. For 18 years I used the face of my client Commander Whitehead as the symbol of his
own product. It worked to beat the band on a peppercorn budget.
Every advertisement should be thought of as a contribution to the
brand image. It follows that your advertising should consistently
project the same image, year after year. This is diɽcult to achieve,
because there are always forces at work to change the advertising –
like a new agency, or a new Marketing Director who wants to make
his mark.
It pays to give most products an image of quality – a First Class
ticket. This is particularly true of products whose brand-name is
visible to your friends, like beer, cigarettes and automobiles:
products you ‘wear.’ If your advertising looks cheap or shoddy, it
will rub oʃ on your product. Who wants to be seen using shoddy
products?
Take whiskey. Why do some people chose Jack Daniel’s, while
others choose Grand Dad or Taylor? Have they tried all three and
compared the taste? Don’t make me laugh. The reality is that these
three brands have diʃerent images which appeal to diʃerent kinds of

people. It isn’t the whiskey they choose, it’s the image. The brand
image is 90 per cent of what the distiller has to sell.
Researchers at the Department of Psychology at the University of
California gave distilled water to students. They told some of them
that it was distilled water, and asked them to describe its taste. Most
said it had no taste of any kind. They told the other students that
the distilled water came out of the tap. Most of them said it tasted
horrible. The mere mention of tap conjured up an image of chlorine.
Give people a taste of Old Crow, and tell them it’s Old Crow. Then
give them another taste of Old Crow, but tell them it’s Jack Daniel’s.
Ask them which they prefer. They’ll think the two drinks are quite
diʃerent. They are tasting images.

When you choose a brand of whiskey you are choosing an image. Jack Daniel’s advertisements project an image of homespun
honesty and thereby persuade you that Jack Daniel’s is worth its premium price.
I have always been hypnotized by Jack Daniel’s. The label and the
advertising convey an image of homespun honesty, and the high
price makes me assume that Jack Daniel’s must be superior.
Writing advertising for any kind of liquor is an extremely subtle
art. I once tried using rational facts to argue the consumer into
choosing a brand of whiskey. It didn’t work. You don’t catch Coca
Cola advertising that Coke contains 50 per cent more cola berries.

Leo Burnett’s campaign for Marlboro projects an image which has made it the biggest-selling cigarette in the world. It has
been running, almost without change, for 25 years.
Next time an apostle of hard-sell questions the importance of
brand images, ask him how Marlboro climbed from obscurity to
become the biggest-selling cigarette in the world. Leo Burnett’s
cowboy campaign, started 25 years ago and continued to this day,
has given the brand an image which appeals to smokers all over the
world.
What’s the big idea?

You can do homework from now until doomsday, but you will never
win fame and fortune unless you also invent big ideas. It takes a big
idea to attract the attention of consumers and get them to buy your
product. Unless your advertising contains a big idea, it will pass like
a ship in the night.
I doubt if more than one campaign in a hundred contains a big
idea. I am supposed to be one of the more fertile inventors of big
ideas, but in my long career as a copywriter I have not had more
than 20, if that. Big ideas come from the unconscious. This is true in
art, in science and in advertising. But your unconscious has to be
well informed, or your idea will be irrelevant. Stuʃ your conscious
mind with information, then unhook your rational thought process.
You can help this process by going for a long walk, or taking a hot
bath, or drinking half a pint of claret. Suddenly, if the telephone line
from your unconscious is open, a big idea wells up within you.
My partner Esty Stowell complained that the ɹrst commercial I
wrote for Pepperidge Farm bread was sound enough, but lacking in
imagery. That night I dreamed of two white horses pulling a baker’s
delivery van along a country lane at a smart trot. Today, 27 years
later, that horse-drawn van is still driving up that lane in Pepperidge
commercials.
When asked what was the best asset a man could have, Albert
Lasker – the most astute of all advertising men – replied, ‘Humility
in the presence of a good idea.’ It is horribly diɽcult to recognize a
good idea. I shudder to think how many I have rejected. Research
can’t help you much, because it cannot predict the cumulative value
of an idea, and no idea is big unless it will work for thirty years.
One of my partners came up with the idea of parading a herd of
bulls through Merrill Lynch commercials under the slogan – ‘Merrill
Lynch is bullish on America.’ I thought it was dopey, but fortunately
it had been approved before I saw it. Those bulls are still parading,
long after the account moved to another agency.
It will help you recognize a big idea if you ask yourself ɹve
questions:
1 Did it make me gasp when I ɹrst saw it?

2 Do I wish I had thought of it myself?
3 Is it unique?
4 Does it ɹt the strategy to perfection?
5 Could it be used for 30 years?
You can count on your ɹngers the number of advertising campaigns
that run even for ɹve years. These are the superstars, the campaigns
that go right on producing results through boom and recession,
against shifting competitive pressures, and changes of personnel.
The Hathaway eyepatch ɹrst appeared in 1951 and is still going
strong. Every Dove commercial since 1955 has promised that, ‘Dove
doesn’t dry your skin the way soap can.’ The American Express
commercials, ‘Do you know me?’ have been running since 1975.
And Leo Burnett’s Marlboro campaign has been running for 25
years.

Sometimes, the best idea of all is to show the product – with utter simplicity. This takes courage, because you will be accused
of not being ‘creative.’
Make the product the hero
Whenever you can, make the product itself the hero of your
advertising. If you think the product too dull, I have news for you:
there are no dull products, only dull writers. I never assign a
product to a writer unless I know that he is personally interested in
it. Every time I have written a bad campaign, it has been because
the product did not interest me.

To my chagrin, this campaign, which I thought enchanting, created scarcely a ripple. The dog was my briard Crème Brûlée.
Judson Irish wrote the dialogue in the style of Alfred Jingle in Pickwick Papers.
Click here for hi-res image.
A problem which confronts agencies is that so many products are
no diʃerent from their competitors. Manufacturers have access to
the same technology; marketing people use the same research
procedures to determine consumer preferences for color, size,
design, taste and so on. When faced with selling ‘parity’ products, all
you can hope to do is explain their virtues more persuasively than
your competitors, and to diʃerentiate them by the style of your
advertising. This is the ‘added value’ which advertising contributes,
and I am not suɽciently puritanical to hate myself for it.

Good ideas come from the unconscious. The author dreamed about an old baker driving his horse and wagon along a country
lane on his way to deliver Pepperidge Farm bread. Twenty-ɹve years later the horse and wagon are still in the commercials.
‘The positively good’
My partner Joel Raphaelson has articulated a feeling which has
been growing in my mind for some time:
‘In the past, just about every advertiser has assumed that in
order to sell his goods he has to convince consumers that his
product is superior to his competitor’s.
‘This may not be necessary. It may be suɽcient to convince
consumers that your product is positively good. If the consumer
feels certain that your product is good and feels uncertain about
your competitor’s, he will buy yours.
‘If you and your competitors all make excellent products,
don’t try to imply that your product is better. Just say what’s
good about your product – and do a clearer, more honest, more
informative job of saying it.
‘If this theory is right, sales will swing to the marketer who
does the best job of creating conɹdence that his product is
positively good.’

This approach to advertising parity products does not insult the
intelligence of consumers. Who can blame you for putting your best
foot forward?
Repeat your winners
If you are lucky enough to write a good advertisement, repeat it
until it stops selling. Scores of good advertisements have been
discarded before they lost their potency.
Research shows that the readership of an advertisement does not
decline when it is run several times in the same magazine.
Readership remains at the same level throughout at least four
repetitions.
You aren’t advertising to a standing army; you are advertising to a
moving parade. The advertisement which sold a refrigerator to
couples who got married last year will probably be just as successful
with couples who get married this year. A good advertisement can
be thought of as a radar sweep, constantly hunting new prospects as
they come into the market. Get a good radar, and keep it sweeping.
Henry Ford once said to a copywriter on his account, ‘Bill, that
campaign of yours is dandy, but do we have to run it forever?’ To
which the copywriter replied, ‘Mr Ford, the campaign has not yet
appeared.’ Ford had seen it too often at too many meetings. The best
way to settle such arguments is to measure the selling eʃectiveness
of your campaign at regular intervals, and to go on running it until
the research shows that it has worn out.
Word of mouth
It sometimes happens that advertising campaigns enter the culture.
Thus the musical theme in a Maxwell House coʃee commercial
became Number 7 on the hit parade. After Commander Whitehead
started appearing in Schweppes advertising, he became a popular
participant in talk shows on television. This kind of thing is manna
from heaven, but nobody knows how to do it on purpose. At least, I
don’t.

Fifty years ago attempts were made in England to cultivate word-
of-mouth advertising by spreading anecdotes like this one:
‘An old farmer was walking down a road, bent double with
rheumatism. Someone in a Rolls-Royce stopped to speak to him.
Told him to take Beecham’s Pills. Do you know who it was? The
King’s Doctor!’
Down with committees
Most campaigns are too complicated. They reɻect a long list of
objectives, and try to reconcile the divergent views of too many
executives. By attempting to cover too many things, they achieve
nothing.
Many commercials and many advertisements look like the
minutes of a committee. In my experience, committees can criticize,
but they cannot create.
‘Search the parks in all your cities
You’ll ɹnd no statues of committees’
Agencies have a way of creating campaigns in committees. They call
it ‘team-work’. Who can argue with team-work?
The process of producing advertising campaigns moves at a snail’s
pace. Questions of strategy are argued by committees of the client’s
brand managers and the agency’s account executives, who have a
vested interest in prolonging the argument as much as possible; it is
how they earn their living. The researchers take months to answer
elementary questions. When the copywriters ɹnally get down to
work, they dawdle about in brain-storming sessions and other forms
of wheel-spinning. If a copywriter averages an hour a week actually
writing, he is exceptional.
The average period of gestation is somewhere between that of
hyenas (110 days) and goats (151 days). For example, storyboards
for commercials are argued at level after level in the agency, and
level after level in the client’s organization. If they survive, they are

then produced and tested. The average copywriter gets only three
commercials a year on air.
Advertising agencies have a genius for wheel-spinning. The average time it takes them to produce a campaign is 117 days –
faster than goats but slower than hyenas.
Ambition
Few copywriters are ambitious. It does not occur to them that if
they tried hard enough, they might double the client’s sales, and
make themselves famous. ‘Raise your sights!’ I exhort them. ‘Blaze
new trails! Hit the ball out of the park!! Compete with the
immortals!!!’
Leo Burnett said it better, ‘When you reach for the stars, you may
not quite get one, but you won’t come up with a handful of mud
either.’
Pursuit of knowledge

I once asked Sir Hugh Rigby, Surgeon to King George V, ‘What
makes a great surgeon?’ Sir Hugh replied, ‘There isn’t much to
choose between surgeons in manual dexterity. What distinguishes
the great surgeon is that he knows more than other surgeons.’ It is
the same with advertising agents. The good ones know more.
I asked an indiʃerent copywriter what books he had read about
advertising. He told me that he had not read any; he preferred to
rely on his own intuition. ‘Suppose,’ I asked, ‘your gall-bladder has
to be removed this evening. Will you choose a surgeon who has read
some books on anatomy and knows where to ɹnd your gall-bladder,
or a surgeon who relies on his intuition? Why should our clients be
expected to bet millions of dollars on your intuition?’
This willful refusal to learn the rudiments of the craft is all too
common. I cannot think of any other profession which gets by on
such a small corpus of knowledge. Millions are spent on testing
individual commercials and advertisements, but next to nothing is
done to analyse the results of those tests in search of plus and minus
factors. Advertising textbooks have nothing to say on the subject.
When he had been head of J. Walter Thompson for 45 years, the
great Stanley Resor told me, ‘Every year we spend hundreds of
millions of dollars of our clients’ money. At the end of it, what do
we know? Nothing. So two years ago I asked four of our people to
try and identify factors which usually work. They already have
twelve.’ I was too polite to tell him that I had ninety-six.
Advertising agencies waste their client’s money repeating the
same mistakes. I recently counted 49 advertisements set in reverse
(white type on black background) in one issue of a magazine, long
years after research demonstrated that reverse is diɽcult to read.
What is the reason for this failure to codify experience? Is it that
advertising does not attract inquiring minds? Is it that any kind of
scientiɹc method is beyond the grasp of ‘creative’ people? Are they
afraid that knowledge would impose some discipline on their work?
It has not always been so. When George Gallup was Research
Director at Young & Rubicam in the thirties, he not only measured
the readership of advertisements, he accumulated the scores and
analysed them. Certain techniques, he found, consistently out-

performed others. A brilliant art director called Vaughn Flannery
latched on to Gallup’s discoveries and applied them. Within a few
months, Young & Rubicam advertisements were being read by more
people than any other agency’s, to the incalculable beneɹt of their
clients.
If more copywriters were ambitious, they too would ɹnd fame and fortune. This is Touʃou, the medieval castle where the
author holes up when he is not visiting one of the Ogilvy & Mather oɽces.
Mills Shepherd conducted similar research on the editorial
content in McCall’s, and came up with similar results. He found, for
example, that photographs of ɹnished dishes consistently attracted
more readers than photographs of the raw ingredients. Recipes,
printed on recipe cards, were sure-ɹre with housewives.
Using the same research technique, Harold Sykes measured the
readership of advertisements in newspapers. He reported that
‘editorial’ graphics were consistently high performers.
In 1947, Harold Rudolph, who had been Research Director in
Stirling Getchel’s agency, published a book on the subject.2 One of

his observations was that photographs with an element of ‘story
appeal’ were far above average in attracting attention. This led me
to put an eye-patch on the model in my advertisements for
Hathaway shirts.
Later, the advertising community turned its back on such
research. Agencies which pioneered the search for knowledge now
excel in violating the principles their predecessors had discovered.
Clients sometimes change agencies because one agency can buy
circulation at a slightly lower cost than another. They don’t realize
that a copywriter who knows his factors – the triggers which make
people read advertisements – can reach many times more readers
than a copywriter who doesn’t.
For 35 years I have continued on the course charted by Gallup,
collecting factors the way other men collect pictures and postage
stamps. If you choose to ignore these factors, good luck to you. A
blind pig can sometimes ɹnd truʀes, but it helps to know that they
are found in oak forests.
It is remarkable how little the plus and minus factors have
changed over the years. With very few exceptions, consumers
continue to react to the same techniques in the same ways.
The lessons of direct response
For all their research, most advertisers never know for sure whether
their advertisements sell. Too many other factors cloud the
equation. But direct-response advertisers, who solicit orders by mail
or telephone, know to a dollar how much each advertisement sells.
So watch the kind of advertising they do. You will notice important
diʃerences between their techniques and the techniques of general
advertisers. For example:
General advertisers use 30-second commercials. But the direct
response fraternity have learned that it is more proɹtable to use
two-minute commercials. Who, do you suppose, is more likely to
be right?

General advertisers broadcast their commercials in expensive
prime time, when the audience is at its peak. But direct response
advertisers have learned that they make more sales late at night.
Who, do you suppose, is more likely to be right?
In their magazine advertisements, general advertisers use short
copy, but the direct response people invariably use long copy.
Who, do you suppose, is more likely to be right?
I am convinced that if all advertisers were to follow the example of
their direct response brethren, they would get more sales per dollar.
Every copywriter should start his career by spending two years in
direct response. One glance at any campaign tells me whether its
author has ever had that experience.
Do I practice what I preach? Not always. I have created my share
of fancy campaigns, but if you ask which of my advertisements has
been the most successful, I will answer without hesitation that it
was the ɹrst ad I wrote for industrial development in Puerto Rico. It
won no awards for ‘creativity’ but it persuaded scores of
manufacturers to start factories in that poverty-stricken island.
Sad to say, an agency which produced nothing but this kind of
down-to-earth advertising would never win a reputation for
‘creativity,’ and would wither on the vine.
What is a good advertisement? An advertisement which pleases
you because of its style, or an advertisement which sells the most?
They are seldom the same. Go through a magazine and pick out the
advertisements you like best. You will probably pick those with
beautiful illustrations, or clever copy. You forget to ask yourself
whether your favorite advertisements would make you want to buy
the product. Says Rosser Reeves, of the Ted Bates agency:
‘I’m not saying that charming, witty and warm copy won’t sell.
I’m just saying that I’ve seen thousands of charming, witty
campaigns that didn’t. Let’s say you are a manufacturer. Your
advertising isn’t working and your sales are going down. And
everything depends on it. Your future depends on it, your

family’s future depends on it, other people’s families depend on
it. And you walk in this oɽce and talk to me, and you sit in
that chair. Now, what do you want out of me? Fine writing? Do
you want masterpieces? Do you want glowing things that can
be framed by copywriters? Or do you want to see the goddamned
sales curve stop moving down and start moving up?’3
The cult of ‘creativity’
The Benton & Bowles agency holds that ‘if it doesn’t sell, it isn’t
creative.’ Amen.
You won’t ɹnd ‘creativity’ in the 12-volume Oxford Dictionary.
Do you think it means originality? Says Reeves, ‘Originality is the
most dangerous word in advertising. Preoccupied with originality,
copywriters pursue something as illusory as swamp ɹre, for which
the Latin phrase is ignis fatuus.’
Mozart said, ‘I have never made the slightest eʃort to compose
anything original.’
I occasionally use the hideous word creative myself, for lack of a
better. If you take the subject more seriously than I do, I suggest you
read The Creative Organization, published by the University of
Chicago Press. Meanwhile, I have to invent a Big Idea for a new
advertising campaign, and I have to invent it before Tuesday.
‘Creativity’ strikes me as a high-falutin word for the work I have to
do between now and Tuesday.
A few years ago, Harry McMahan drew attention to the kind of
commercials which were winning the famous Clio awards for
creativity:
Agencies that won four of the Clios had lost the accounts.
Another Clio winner was out of business.
Another Clio winner had taken its budget out of TV.
Another Clio winner had given half his account to another
agency.

Another refused to put his winning entry on the air.
Of 81 television classics picked by the Clio festival in previous
years, 36 of the agencies involved had either lost the account or
gone out of business.
Rosser Reeves: ‘Do you want ɹne writing? Do you want masterpieces? Or do you want to see the goddamned sales curve start
moving up?’
What about sex?
The ɹrst advertisement I ever produced showed a naked woman. It
was a mistake, not because it was sexy, but because it was irrelevant
to the product – a cooking stove.

This is my ɹrst advertisement and it embarrasses me to reproduce it. No headline, no promise, no information about the
product. Certainly, nobody had ever shown a nude in an advertisement before, but, in this case, it was irrelevant to the
product – a cooking stove.
The test is relevance. To show bosoms in a detergent
advertisement would not sell the detergent. Nor is there any excuse
for the sexy girls you sometimes see draped across the hoods in
automobile advertisements. On the other hand, there is a functional
reason to show nudes in advertisements for beauty products.
Advertising reɻects the mores of society, but does not inɻuence
them. Thus it is that you ɹnd more explicit sex in magazines and

novels than in advertisements. The word fuck is commonplace in
contemporary literature, but has yet to appear in advertisements.
There used to be an unwritten law against showing women in
advertisements for cigarettes. It was not until long after people got
used to seeing them smoke in public that this taboo was lifted. I was
the ɹrst to show women in liquor advertisements – 30 years after
they started drinking in public.
Not long ago, all Paris was agog over a series of posters which
appeared on the hoardings. The ɹrst showed a nubile girl in a
bikini, saying, ‘On September 2, I will take oʃ the top.’ On
September 2 a new poster appeared – she had taken oʃ the top. This
time she promised, ‘On September 4, I will take oʃ the bottom’. All
Paris was asking if she would also keep this promise. She did.
Few Parisians were shocked. But I would not advise you to put up
these posters in South Dakota.
In Pakistan, an Islamic authority recently complained that ‘our
women are being exploited and commercialized on television and in
the newspapers. This goes against God’s will and violates the
tradition of purdah dictated in the Koran.’ He proposed a ban on
women appearing in advertisements. In Saudi Arabia it is illegal to
use photographs of women in advertising, but OK to use drawings,
provided you don’t show bare arms or cleavage. When a commercial
for a soft drink showed a little girl licking her lips because she liked
the taste, it was banned as obscene.

In 1981 all Paris was agog over this series of posters. The ɹrst promised, ‘On September 2, I take oʃ the top.’
The second promised, ‘On September 4, I take oʃ the bottom.’ Would she keep that promise too?

She did. (It was meant to prove that posters are a good medium for advertising.)

For a long time, the idea that women might drink liquor as well as men aʃronted American puritanism suɽciently to keep
women out of liquor ads. I was the ɹrst to break this taboo.
Click here for hi-res image and text.

While we are on the subject of taste, I deplore the current fashion
of using clergymen, monks and angels as comic ɹgures in
advertising. It may amuse you, but it shocks a lot of people.
But I don’t object to scatological humor in advertising. I had no
qualms about presenting the Grand Prize in a Clio ceremony to a
Japanese soap commercial which featured a small boy farting in a
public bath.
The most risqué copy I have seen was for Paco Rabanne men’s
cologne. Sales went up 25 per cent, and the advertisement was
voted the best to appear in magazines in 1981.
The Health Education Council in England uses advertising to
encourage girls to get free contraceptives from Family Planning
Clinics.

There is a functional reason to show nudes in these ads for beauty products. Nudes have become commonplace in European
advertising and are beginning to appear in American advertisements, too.


One of my partners wrote this risqué advertisement for men’s cologne.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
The Health Education Council in England ran this advertisement to encourage girls to get free contraceptives from Family
Planning Clinics – ‘whether you are married or not.’

If you follow the advice I have given you, you will do your
homework, avoid committees, learn from research, watch what the
direct-response advertisers do, and stay away from irrelevant sex.
In later chapters I will uncork some of the things I have learned
about producing print advertisements which make the cash register
ring. After that, television.
1Tested Advertising Methods by John Caples. Prentice-Hall, 1975
2Attention and Interest Factors in Advertising by H. Rudolph. Funk & Wagnall, 1947
3Reality in Advertising, by R. Reeves. Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1961

