# 5. How to get clients

Paginas: 90-102

H
5
How to get clients
ere I go, boasting again. There are better copywriters than I
am, and scores of better administrators, but I doubt if many people
have matched my record as a new business collector.
In my Confessions, I told how I started by making a list of the
clients I most wanted – General Foods, Lever Brothers, Bristol
Myers, Campbell Soup Company and Shell. It took time, but in due
course I got them all, plus American Express, Sears Roebuck, IBM,
Morgan Guaranty, Merrill Lynch and a few others, including three
governments. While some of these clients have since defected, their
total billings with Ogilvy & Mather add up to more than three
billion dollars – so far.

A big account walks in. (From White Collar Zoo by Clare Barnes Jr.)
My policy has always been that of J.P. Morgan – ‘only ɹrst-class
business, and that in a ɹrst-class way’ – but at ɹrst I had to take
anything I could get, to pay the rent. A patent hairbrush, a tortoise,
an English motorbike.
But I also had the good fortune to get four small accounts which
gave me a chance to produce the kind of sophisticated advertising
which attracts attention to an agency: Guinness, Hathaway shirts,
Schweppes and Rolls-Royce.
The easiest way to get new clients is to do good advertising. During
one period of seven years, we never failed to win an account for
which we competed, and all I did was to show the campaigns we
had created. Sometimes, I did not even have to do that. One
afternoon, a man walked into my oɽce without an appointment and
gave me the IBM account; he knew our work.
This unparalleled run of success gave me a swelled head. When
Dr. Anton Rupert told me that he had it in mind to market
Rothmans cigarettes in the United States and asked me to do the

advertising, I declined with such hubris that he said, ‘Mr. Ogilvy, I
hope to meet you again – when you are on your way down.’ We did
not meet again for 25 years, when we were both on the Executive
Committee of the World Wildlife Fund. He is a great man.
In recent years, manufacturers have complicated the process of
selecting agencies beyond reason. They start by sending long
questionnaires to a dozen or more agencies. Idiotic questions like:
‘How many persons are employed in your print production
department?’ To which I answered, ‘I haven’t the foggiest idea. I
haven’t been in the department for seven years. Why do you think it
matters?’

To get clients, do good advertising.
If you are more polite and give enough right answers, you get on
the short list, and a delegation comes to inspect you. They want to
know what commission you will charge. I answer, ‘If you are going
to choose your agency on the basis of price, you are looking through
the wrong end of the telescope. What you should worry about is not
the price you pay for your agency’s services, but the selling power of
your advertising.’
The selectors show scant interest in the campaigns you have
produced for other manufacturers. They want to know what you

could do for them, so they invite you to analyse their problems and
make ɹnished commercials. They then have your commercials
tested. If you get a higher score than your competitors, you win the
account.
Some agencies now spend as much as $500,000 on new business
presentations. They ɹgure that if they win and keep the account for
20 years, they may come out ahead. Agencies which don’t have the
money to make such bets are at a disadvantage.
This long and expensive process does not necessarily result in the
selection of the best agency. The agency which would create the
best advertising over a period of years may not have the luck to
come up with the best campaign in the few weeks allotted to the
contest. In the next chapter I will suggest a better way to go about
choosing an agency.
The meeting
At the meeting when you make your presentation, don’t sit the
client’s team on one side of the table and your team opposite, like
adversaries. Mix everybody up.
Rehearse before the meeting, but never speak from a prepared
text; it locks you into a position which may become irrelevant
during the meeting.
Above all, listen. The more you get the prospective client to talk,
the easier it will be to decide whether you really want his account.
A former head of Magnavox treated me to a two-hour lecture on
advertising, about which he knew nothing. I gave him a cup of tea
and showed him out.
Tell your prospective client what your weak points are, before he
notices them. This will make you more credible when you boast
about your strong points.
Don’t get bogged down in case histories or research numbers.
They put prospects to sleep. No manufacturer ever hired an agency
because it increased market-share for somebody else.
The day after a new business presentation, send the prospect a
three-page letter summarizing the reasons why he should pick your

agency. This will help him make the right decision.
If you are too feeble to get accounts under your own steam, you
can buy them – by buying agencies. But this practice has a way of
backɹring. Adolph Toigo used it to quintuple the billings of Lennen
& Newell, but he was unable to weld his acquisitions into a cohesive
body. The result was a quarrelsome confederation which ended in
bankruptcy.
Credit risks
Watch out for credit risks. Your proɹt margin is too slim to survive a
prospective client’s bankruptcy. When in doubt, I always ask the
head of the incumbent agency.
Never pay a commission to an outsider who oʃers to introduce
new business. No client who chooses his agency on the basis of such
an introduction is worth having; and there is usually dirty work at
the crossroads. Six weeks after I started my agency, I was so
desperate for business that I oʃered a young man of my
acquaintance 10 per cent of our stock if he brought in a vacuum-
cleaner account which he had in his pocket. If he had accepted my
oʃer, his stock in Ogilvy & Mather would now be worth
$19,000,000. A lucky escape.
Some years later, when I was older and wiser, Ben Sonnenberg,
the public-relations operator, asked me what percentage of our stock
I would give him if he steered the Greyhound Bus account to us.
When I said zero, he thought I was mad.
Avoid clients whose ethos is incompatible with yours. I refused
Charles Revson of Revlon and Lew Rosenstiel of Schenley.
Beware of ventures which spend little or nothing today but might
become major advertisers, if all goes well. Servicing such non-
accounts can be expensive, and few of them make it. Yes, there are
exceptions. I once made the mistake of turning down a small
company which made oɽce machinery, because I had never heard
of it. The name was Xerox.

The diʃerences between agencies are less than they like to believe.
Most of them can show that they have produced advertising that
increased sales for some of their clients. Most have competent media
departments and research departments. Thanks to inɻation, almost
all of them have grown in billings. So what’s the diʃerence between
them?
Very often the decisive diʃerence in new business contests is the
personality of the head of the agency. Many clients went to Foote,
Cone & Belding because they were impressed by Fax Cone’s style.
Conversely, many failures to win accounts are caused by the fact
that the prospective client ɹnds the head of the agency obnoxious.
My personality has lost some contests and won others.
Aside: I have resigned accounts ɹve times as often as I have been
ɹred, and always for the same reason: the client’s behavior was
eroding the morale of the people working on his account. Erosion of
morale does unacceptable damage to an agency.
Getting multinational accounts
If you get an account which also advertises in overseas markets, you
stand a good chance of getting it around the world. I call this the
domino system of new business acquisition. J. Walter Thompson,
McCann-Erickson and Young & Rubicam built their overseas
networks to meet the needs of such multinationals as General
Motors, Coca Cola, Esso and General Foods. When I got the Shell
account in the United States, Max Burns, the then President of Shell,
asked me if I would also like to have the account in Canada. ‘Yes,’
said I, ‘but I don’t have an oɽce in Canada.’ ‘Get one,’ said Max,
and that is how I started the network which was to spread to 40
countries.
In these cases your competition will be the local agencies in the
countries concerned. They have a habit of wrapping themselves in
their national ɻag and appealing to their governments for protection
against us foreign invaders. They accuse us of imposing an alien

culture, particularly in countries which have little culture of their
own, and in some cases their appeals have been heard. The
Canadian Government employs only Canadian agencies. In Nigeria,
the foreign agencies have been expelled.
The fact is that almost all the overseas oɽces of American
agencies are managed by nationals who would not know how to
project American culture, even if they were foolish enough to try.
Multinational accounts have propelled agencies into the international market. Shell was responsible for my building a
worldwide network of agencies. This Shell ad is from Ogilvy & Mather’s Frankfurt oɽce.
The old way to start a new agency was to defect from the agency
which employed you and take some clients with you. Thus Ted
Bates started his agency with accounts he had handled at Benton &
Bowles. But this gambit has since been hampered by a legal
decision. A man called Jones had a thriving agency, but he was an
alcoholic and was always falling asleep during presentations. His
associates begged him to retire. When the situation became
intolerable, they crossed the street and set up their own agency –
with some of Jones’s clients. He sued them for conspiracy and won;
they had to pay such heavy damages that they were forced to close
their agency.

In 1981 an agency in New Zealand took successful action against
its former Managing Director and Creative Director who had walked
out with 17 members of the staʃ and nine accounts. Gentle reader,
you have been warned.
With any luck, you will get accounts which grow. When I got
American Express in 1962, the advertising budget was $1,000,000.
It is now $70,000,000.
When you are head of an agency, you know that your staʃ looks
to you to bring in new business, more than anything else. If you fail
to do so over an extended period, you sense that you are losing their
conɹdence, and are tempted to grab any account you can get. Don’t.
Above all, don’t join the melancholy procession of agencies which
always accompanies a dying brand on its way to the cemetery.
When Pan American fell on hard times, they moved their account
from J. Walter Thompson, who had done an exceptionally good job
for 29 years, to Carl Ally. Seven years later, when they continued to
decline, they moved to N. W. Ayer. Three years later, they moved to
Doyle Dane Bernbach. Six months later they moved to Wells, Rich,
Greene. But this kind of instability is rare. The American Telephone
Company, General Motors and Exxon have employed the same
agencies for more than 70 years; DuPont, General Electric, Procter &
Gamble and Scott Paper have employed the same agencies for more
than 50 years.
It is important to know how your agency is regarded in the
marketing community. Don’t trust your own ears; you will only hear
favorable opinions. It is safer, if you can aʃord it, to have a research
organization conduct an impartial survey. When they report weak
spots in your reputation, you can probably correct them, but it will
take longer than you expect. Opinion always lags behind reality.
If you aspire to building a portfolio of accounts in a wide variety
of industries, you must be able to produce diʃerent kinds of
advertising. An agency which can only play the package-goods tune
disqualiɹes itself from corporate accounts. An agency which always
produces emotional advertising is unlikely to be hired by a
manufacturer of power tools. The broader your range, the broader
the spectrum of accounts you will get.

It follows that you should recruit people with a wide range of
talents. An agency should be like an orchestra, able to play anything
from Palestrina to Jean-Michel Jarre with equal virtuosity.
Big agencies vs. small
It is very diɽcult for small agencies to get big accounts. They
cannot aʃord the range of specialized departments which big
accounts require – regional oɽces, research, sales promotion, direct
mail, public relations, and so on. They cannot deploy enough bodies
to match the bodies at the client end. And the risk of losing a big
client scares them out of that independence of judgment which
should be one of any agency’s principal values to its clients.
The other side of the coin is that the bigger an agency grows, the
more bureaucratic it becomes. Personal leadership gives way to
hierarchy. The head of the agency no longer recognizes his staʃ in
the elevators. I found working at Ogilvy & Mather more agreeable
when it was small, but as I aspired to handling big accounts, I had
no choice but to build a big agency.
However, there will always be more small accounts than big ones,
so small agencies are not an endangered species. Within the limits of
their resources, they can often out-perform the big ones. Creativity
is not a function of size. Small can be beautiful.
Physician, heal thyself
It puzzles me why so few agencies advertise themselves. Perhaps it
is because the partners cannot agree on what to say. Some want to
improve their agency’s reputation for ‘creativity.’ Some want to
impress prospective clients with their agency’s marketing skills.
Some want new business leads in a hurry. Make up your mind
which you want – before you start writing house ads.
Direct mail is probably the most eɽcient medium for your house
campaign. If you can scrape up the money, use space advertising as
well, but don’t start it unless you mean to do it consistently. Young &
Rubicam advertised in every issue of Fortune for 40 years.

Advertising agencies seldom take their own medicine, but Young & Rubicam advertised in every issue of Fortune for 40 years.
This was the ɹfth ad in the series and the best ever run for an agency. Raymond Rubicam wrote it and Vaughn Flannery was
the art director.

With these house ads, Ogilvy & Mather tell potential clients about the agency’s wide-ranging expertise.

Left alone, copywriters write house ads to impress other
copywriters, and art directors make layouts to impress other art
directors. But trendy layouts and fancy copy don’t impress
prospective clients who have come up through ɹnance, production
or sales. Writing house ads is a job for copywriters who can think
like top-level businessmen. They should also be endowed with
patience; it took me 22 years to get my ɹrst house ads approved by
my partners.
The purpose of my ads was to project the agency as knowing more
about advertising. You may argue that this strategy was ill-advised,
knowledge being no guarantee of ‘creativity.’ But at least it was
unique,
because
no
other
agency
could
have
run
such
advertisements – they lacked the required knowledge. My ads not
only promised useful information, they provided it. And they worked
– in many countries.
But watch out: your clients will read your house advertisements. If
you boast about your genius for brilliant ideas, you run the risk that
they will ask you why you don’t give them brilliant ideas.

