# 12. Direct mail, my first love and secret weapon

Paginas: 227-238

O
12
Direct mail, my ɹrst love and
secret weapon
With tips on direct advertising in magazines and
television
ne day a man walked into a London agency and asked to see
the boss. He had bought a country house and was about to open it
as a hotel. Could the agency help him to get customers? He had
$500 to spend. Not surprisingly, the head of the agency turned him
over to the oɽce boy, who happened to be the author of this book. I
invested his money in penny postcards and mailed them to well-
heeled people living in the neighborhood. Six weeks later the hotel
opened to a full house. I had tasted blood.
From that day on, I have been a voice crying in the wilderness,
trying to persuade the advertising establishment to take direct mail
more
seriously
and
to
stop
treating
its
practitioners
as
noncommissioned oɽcers. It was my secret weapon in the
avalanche of new business acquisitions which made Ogilvy &
Mather an instant success.
Today, direct mail has exploded – an explosion caused more than
anything by computers. They make it possible to select names from
mailing lists by every imaginable demographic classiɹcation, by
frequency of purchase and by amount of purchase. With a computer
you can remove duplication between mailing lists and within a list –
a process called ‘merge and purge.’ You can even avoid mailing to
people who don’t like receiving mailings.

Computers make it possible for every letter in a mailing of
millions to include the name of each addressee, not only in the
salutation, but several times in the body of the letter.
Most direct-response buying is now done with a credit card, and
the companies that issue the cards know who has bought what. If
you have charged a trip to Disney World in Florida, I can send you a
mailing for Disneyland in California.
The biggest users of direct mail are magazine publishers in search
of subscriptions, catalog houses, food stores, department stores,
record clubs and book clubs. It has been estimated that total sales by
direct mail in the United States are now more than a hundred billion
dollars a year.
Unfortunately, there are a lot of ɻy-by-night frauds in the direct-
mail business, including, say the New York Times, ten thousand
phoney ‘pastors.’ In 1980, 1,500,000 consumers complained to the
Better Business Bureau about ɹrms which had failed to deliver the
merchandise they had ordered, or had delivered it too late or in
damaged condition. In the whole spectrum of marketing, direct mail
is where you ɹnd the swindlers. That said, the vast bulk of
advertising by direct mail is on the level.
Advertisers who distribute their products in the normal way,
through wholesalers and retailers, have great diɽculty in isolating
the results of their advertising from the other factors in their
marketing mix, but direct-mail advertisers can measure the results
of their mailings to the dollar. This makes it possible for them to test
everything they do. In direct mail, testing is the name of the game.
You can test every variable in your mailings and determine
exactly its eʃect on your sales. But because you can only test one
variable at a time, you cannot aʃord to test them all. So you have to
choose which to test. Experienced practitioners always test some
variables, but seldom those which experience has taught them make
little diʃerence in results. Next to the positioning of your product,
the most important variables to be tested are pricing, terms of
payment, premiums and the format of your mailing.
The price you ask and the terms of payment you oʃer are critical,
and they can be tested by sample mailings. A highbrow magazine

tested three terms of payment for subscriptions. In one, the
subscriber was asked to pay $65 for 56 issues. In another, $42.50
for 39 issues. In the third, $29.95 for 29 issues. Guess which won?
Although it cut the price 40 per cent, the third generated 35 per
cent more net revenue.
When collections of Moscow Olympic Games silver, gold and
platinum coins were sold by direct mail, a mailing which oʃered
only the silver coins led to more sales of the complete collection than
a mailing which oʃered the complete collection itself.
When your proɹt margin allows, it pays to oʃer a free premium.
Always test diʃerent premiums. One of the most eʃective is cash
prizes in sweepstakes. Sweepstakes, premiums, free oʃers, and low
prices will build up your initial response, but the customer who is
attracted by these devices is not always the customer who turns into
a long-term buyer.
Asking for the full price and cash with the order will reduce the
number of people who respond. But it may turn up more customers
who are likely to stay with you over the years. Only testing will tell.
The more you test, the more proɹtable your direct mail will
become.
Once you have evolved a mailing which produces proɹtable
results, treat it as the ‘control’ and start testing ways to beat it. Try
adding a premium, or putting in an expiration date, or adding
enclosures – like a personalized letter from your President. They
cost money, but if they increase your proɹt, why worry?
Sometimes an expensive control can be made less expensive
without reducing your orders. You can test a smaller mailing piece,
or eliminate the personalization, or print your brochure in two
colors instead of four, or eliminate the brochure altogether. You
may be in for a pleasant surprise. Less can be more.
Innovations, provided you test them, can work wonders. Prospects
for a new Cessna Citation business jet were surprised when we sent
them live carrier pigeons, with an invitation to take a free ride in a
Citation. The recipient was asked to release our carrier pigeon with
his address tied to its leg. Some of the recipients ate the pigeons, but

several returned alive, and at least one Citation was sold – for
$600,000.
This direct-mail shot for Moscow Olympic Games silver coins worked well.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
My brother Francis wrote a letter in Greek to the headmasters of
private schools, selling cooking stoves. When some wrote back that
they could not read Greek, he sent them another letter – in Latin.
This produced orders.
Successful mailings do not always depend on premiums,
brochures and other such paraphernalia. I have seen letters produce
satisfactory results all by themselves. But they have to be long
letters. When Mercedes-Benz were saddled with 1,170 obsolete
diesels, we mailed a ɹve-page letter and unloaded the surplus. For
Cunard we used an eight-page letter with marked success.
Direct response advertising in magazines and television
So far this chapter has been about direct mail. Now I am going to
tell you what I have learned about a parallel science –
advertisements in magazines and on television which invite people
to send their orders direct to you, without going to a store.

In print advertisements, your headline is the most important
element. The other day I saw one headline produce ɹve times as
many orders as another. If your headline promises your strongest
and most distinct beneɹt, you are on your way to success.
Good photographs of your product cost more than bad ones, but
they also sell more. When you want to show something that cannot
be photographed, like cutaways of the inside of your product, use a
drawing.
Long copy sells more than short copy, particularly when you are
asking the reader to spend a lot of money. Only amateurs use short
copy.
Cross-heads give breathing space to your copy, and make it more
readable. They should be written in such a way that skimmers get
the main points of your sales story.
Testimonials increase credibility – and sales. If one testimonial
tests well, try two. But don’t use testimonials by celebrities, unless
they are recognized authorities, like Arnold Palmer on golf clubs.
Winston Churchill said, ‘Short words are best, and the old words
when short are best of all.’ This applies in spades to mail order copy.
Set your copy in black type on white paper. You will already
know how much I loathe ‘reverse type’ – white on black – for the
very good reason that it reduces readership. There are only two
exceptions. People read theater programs in the dark, holding them
up against the light coming from the stage, so they are easier to read
when set in reverse. So are slides projected onto a screen.
Readers often skip from the headline to the coupon, to ɹnd out
what your oʃer is. So make your coupons mini-ads, complete with
brand name, promise and a miniature photograph of your product.
Many readers tell themselves they will mail the coupon ‘later,’ but
never get around to it. One survey showed that twice as much
response is lost in this way as is received by the advertiser. Here are
four ways to keep your prospects on the hook:
‘Limited edition’
‘Limited supply’

‘Last time at this price’
‘Special price for promptness’
It used to be thought that the more cluttered your layout, the more
you would sell. My observation has been the opposite. Tidy, well-
organized layouts actually increase coupon returns.
Where to advertise
You know exactly how many inquiries, and ultimately how many
orders you get from each insertion in each publication. One
magazine may perform twice as well as another. Such variations can
be enough to make the diʃerence between proɹt and loss.
Watch the media your competitors use, in particular the media
they continue to use. Watch for editorial changes in magazines. They
may attract your kind of reader, or may drive them away.
Go easy on two-page spreads. They cost twice as much as single
pages, but seldom produce twice as many orders. Test diʃerent units
of space, like a page and a business reply card versus a page alone.
Although the card may double the cost, it can sometimes generate
four times as many orders as the page alone.

This advertisement, written by Vic Schwab, sold a million books in three years – by mail order. The promise in the headline
and the content of the copy were irresistible.

James Webb Young was the creative head of J. Walter Thompson for 40 years. In his spare time he ran a mail-order business
in Santa Fe under the name Webb Young, Trader. This is one of his advertisements, and an object lesson in mail-order
advertising. One insertion in Life sold 26,000 ties.

What parent could resist this British direct-mail advertisement. The copywriter was David Abbott.

This advertisement announces the opening of a Direct Response oɽce. Note the long copy, stuʃed with speciɹc information.
Click here for hi-res image.
When you advertise repeatedly in the same magazine, response
rates almost always drop. In some magazines, your ad may make a
proɹt six times a year, while you may be able to use other
magazines twelve times before they become unproɹtable.
Television
It may surprise you to know that the right kind of television
commercial can persuade people to order products by mail or

telephone – mostly telephone. The ‘right kind’ are those which set
up a problem and demonstrate how your product can solve it; give a
money-back guarantee; include the price; and ask for the order,
explicitly and urgently.
The demonstrations should promise not one beneɹt, but several.
(This runs counter to the Procter & Gamble formula.)
My partner Al Eicoʃ has had more experience than anyone in
selling direct on television. He has almost never seen a commercial
shorter than two minutes produce proɹtable sales. These marathon
commercials don’t seem to irritate people as much as a cluster of
short ones – ‘like ɹve salesmen knocking on the door, one after
another.’
You must allow 20 seconds to give information on how to order.
This is long enough to give your toll-free telephone number and post
oɽce box number, complete with supers; and to repeat the charge-
free telephone number at least twice.
Most advertisers measure their purchases on television time by
cost per thousand viewers reached, but Eicoʃ measures them by the
number of orders he receives each time a station broadcasts one of
his commercials. He then eliminates the time periods and the
stations that don’t pay oʃ. The most productive times are early
morning, late evening and weekends. January, February and March
are the most proɹtable months.
The better the program on which your commercials appear, the
fewer sales you make. When viewers are bored by an old movie,
they are more likely to pick up the telephone and order your
product than when they are riveted by an episode of Dallas.
Remember, there is no correlation between the size of your audience
and the number of orders you receive.
Every chapter in this book is of necessity an over-simpliɹcation of a
more-or-less complicated subject, and no more so than this one. If
you want to know more about direct response, start by reading

Successful Direct Marketing Methods by Bob Stone, published by Crain
Books in Chicago.

