# 1. Overture

Paginas: 7-10

I
1
Overture
‘Let us march against Philip’
do not regard advertising as entertainment or an art form, but as
a medium of information. When I write an advertisement, I don’t
want you to tell me that you ɹnd it ‘creative.’ I want you to ɹnd it
so interesting that you buy the product. When Aeschines spoke, they
said, ‘How well he speaks.’ But when Demosthenes spoke, they said,
‘Let us march against Philip.’
In my Confessions of an Advertising Man, published in 1963, I told
the story of how Ogilvy & Mather came into existence, and set forth
the principles on which our early success had been based. What was
then little more than a creative boutique in New York has since
become one of the four biggest advertising agencies in the world,
with 140 oɽces in 40 countries. Our principles seem to work.
But I am now so old that a French magazine lists me as the only
survivor among a group of men who, they aver, contributed to the
Industrial Revolution – alongside Adam Smith, Edison, Karl Marx,
Rockefeller, Ford and Keynes. Does old age disqualify me from
writing about advertising in today’s world? Or could it be that
perspective helps a man to separate the eternal verities of
advertising from its passing fads?
When I set up shop on Madison Avenue in 1949, I assumed that
advertising would undergo several major changes before I retired.
So far, there has been only one change that can be called major:
television has emerged as the most potent medium for selling most
products.

Yes, there have been other changes and I shall describe them, but
their signiɹcance has been exaggerated by pundits in search of
trendy labels. For example, the concept of brand images, which I
popularized in 1953, was not really new; Claude Hopkins had
described it 20 years before. The so-called Creative Revolution,
usually ascribed to Bill Bernbach and myself in the ɹfties, could
equally well have been ascribed to N. W. Ayer and Young &
Rubicam in the thirties.
Meanwhile, most of the advertising techniques which worked
when I wrote Confessions of an Advertising Man still work today.
Consumers still buy products whose advertising promises them
value for money, beauty, nutrition, relief from suʃering, social
status and so on. All over the world.
In saying this, I run the risk of being denounced by the idiots who
hold that any advertising technique which has been in use for more
than two years is ipso facto obsolete. They excoriate slice-of-life
commercials, demonstrations and talking heads, turning a blind eye
to the fact that these techniques still make the cash register ring. If
they have read Horace, they will say that I am diɽcilis, querulus,
laudator temporis acti. Se puero, castigator, censorque minorum.1 So
what? There have always been noisy lunatics on the fringes of the
advertising business. Their stock-in-trade includes ethnic humor,
eccentric art direction, contempt for research, and their self-
proclaimed genius. They are seldom found out, because they
gravitate to the kind of clients who, bamboozled by their rhetoric,
do not hold them responsible for sales results. Their campaigns ɹnd
favor at cocktail parties in New York, San Francisco and London but
are taken less seriously in Chicago. In the days when I specialized in
posh campaigns for The New Yorker, I was the hero of this coterie,
but when I graduated to advertising in mass media and wrote a
book which extolled the value of research, I became its devil. I
comfort myself with the reɻection that I have sold more
merchandise than all of them put together.
I am sometimes attacked for imposing ‘rules.’ Nothing could be
further from the truth. I hate rules. All I do is report on how
consumers react to diʃerent stimuli. I may say to a copywriter,

‘Research shows that commercials with celebrities are below
average in persuading people to buy products. Are you sure you
want to use a celebrity?’ Call that a rule? Or I may say to an art
director, ‘Research suggests that if you set the copy in black type on
a white background, more people will read it than if you set it in
white type on a black background.’ A hint, perhaps, but scarcely a
rule.
In 18th-century England, a family of obstetricians built a huge
practice by delivering babies with a lower rate of infant and
maternal mortality than their competitors. They had a secret – and
guarded it jealously, until an inquisitive medical student climbed
onto the roof of their delivering room, looked through the skylight
and saw the forceps they had invented. The secret was out, to the
beneɹt of all obstetricians and their patients. Today’s obstetricians
do not keep their discoveries secret, they publish them. I am
grateful to my partners for allowing me to publish mine. But I
should add that the occasional opinions expressed in this book do
not necessarily reɻect the collegial opinions of the agency which
employs me.
This is not a book for readers who think they already know all
there is to be known about advertising. It is for young hopefuls –
and veterans who are still in search of ways to improve their batting
average at the cash register.
I write only about aspects of advertising I know from my own
experience. That is why this book contains nothing about media,
cable television or advertising in Japan.
If you think it is a lousy book, you should have seen it before my
partner Joel Raphaelson did his best to de-louse it. Bless you, Joel.

1Testy, a grumbler, inclined to praise the way of the world when he was a boy, to play the
critic and to be a censor of the new generation.

