# 17. Is America still top nation?

Paginas: 274-294

R
17
Is America still top nation?
The hare and the tortoises
oughly half of all the advertising in the world is in the United
States, and American agencies are paramount in the rest of the
world. In West Germany, nine of the top agencies are American. In
the United Kingdom and Holland, seven of the top ten. In Canada
and Italy, six of the top ten. In 1977 Philip Kleinman, a British
observer of the advertising scene, wrote that ‘all over the world,
admen look to Madison Avenue as Moslems look to Mecca.’1
But things are changing. Alexander Kroll, the president of Young
& Rubicam, recently said that ‘the best of foreign advertising seems
brasher, fresher and more outrageous than ours’.
Remember Aesop’s fable of the Hare and the Tortoise?
Britain
The diʃerences between British and American advertising reɻect
diʃerences in national characteristics. If you question whether those
diʃerences are big enough to signify, consider the fact that, on an
average Sunday, 42 per cent of Americans go to church, while only
3 per cent go in England.
British commercials tend to be less direct, less competitive, more
subtle, more nostalgic, funnier and more entertaining. Techniques
which work well in the United States – like talking heads and slice-
of-life are seldom used in Britain. The London agencies produce
relatively far-out, trendy commercials. After spending four years in
London, my partner Bill Taylor wrote, ‘There seems to be a

realization in England that maybe, just maybe, the product being
sold is not the most important thing in the consumer’s mind. The
decision as to which dishwashing liquid to buy, which beer to drink
or which toaster to purchase, is not a life-and-death decision.
Realizing this, the British are able to present their product to the
consumer in perspective. They joke about it, sing about it, and often
underplay it. In short, they have a sense of proportion.’ He
concludes that, in general, British advertising is the best in the
world.
This British ad for Shell is perhaps the most disarming corporate advertisement ever created.
Click here for hi-res image and text.

A superb use of emotion (nostalgia) in an English commercial for Hovis bread.
No wonder British copywriters are now in such demand in the
United States. The procession which started with Leslie Pearl,
Cliʃord Field and the author is gathering steam. Barry Day, the
Creative Head at McCann-Erickson’s headquarters in New York is an
Englishman, as is Norman Berry, the Creative Head of Ogilvy &
Mather in New York.

British newspaper advertising at its best...

...Straightforward, direct, never pompous, always interesting. Collett Dickenson Pearce.
Europe
French advertising is distinguished for its wit, charm and beautiful
art direction, qualities which are seen to best advantage in magazine
ads and posters. Many French television commercials are equally
enchanting, although I often wonder if they appeal to Claudette, my
cook. French copywriters and art directors are not subjected to the
kind of research which restrains their American and British

colleagues from shooting above the heads of the mass audience.
They are free to entertain the upper crust.
I ɹnd the atmosphere in the better German agencies very like New
York, but dare I confess that I ɹnd some of their advertising rather
ugly?
German advertisers are bedevilled by an acute shortage of
professional staʃ, and an even more acute shortage of time on
television. This obliges them to use magazines more than they
would wish.
In Belgium and Sweden, advertising is not allowed on television.
You might suppose that this would result in exceptionally high
standards of advertising in magazines and newspapers, but it
doesn’t.
In the smaller European countries, advertisers cannot aʃord the
kind of research that guides the creative output in North America
and the United Kingdom, so they are forced to rely on guesswork,
which isn’t always accurate. The multinational advertisers have the
advantage that they can extrapolate from the results of their
research in bigger markets.
The N.I.H. Syndrome
Multinational corporations often wish to use the same advertising
campaigns throughout the world, but the managers of their local
subsidiaries press their prerogative to commission their own
campaigns. The local agencies, even when they belong to the
multinational agency which has the parent account, are equally
resistant to dictation; they argue that their market is diʃerent, and
point to the danger of being perceived by the local client as the tool
of his multinational headquarters.

One in a superb series of British advertisements for CIGA Hotels. The agency is TBWA.
Click here for hi-res image.
There is often some weight in these arguments, but the underlying
factor is almost always what Professor Levitt of Harvard calls the
N.I.H. Syndrome – Not Invented Here. Any campaign not invented
in your country is a threat to your self-respect. The best way to
settle these arguments is to test the international campaign in each
country. Only when the results are positive should it be used locally,
and even then it should be modiɹed to ɹt the local culture. More
often than not, campaigns which perform well in the United States
perform equally well in other countries. The Esso tiger was a success
in 34 countries.

A beautiful advertisement from the Frankfurt oɽce of TBWA.
Many Germans believed that Club Med resorts were snobbish, that they were for summer only, and that only French was
spoken. Ads like this proclaimed otherwise.

An advertisement by the Frankfurt oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather. Simple and straightforward.
Reader’s Digest has found that the articles which most interest
Americans are the same articles which most interest Frenchmen,
Germans,
Italians,
Dutchmen
and
Ruritanians.
Television
commercials which demonstrated the good mileage you get with
Shell were equally successful in the United States, Canada, Britain,
Germany and Austria.
Advertising in Latin America has made big strides in recent years –
particularly in Brazil, where José Fontoura is producing some
outstanding campaigns.

But the most dramatic improvement of all has been in South East
Asia. Three years ago, I oʃered a prize of $10,000 to the Ogilvy &
Mather oɽce which created the most brilliant advertising in our
world-wide network. Which oɽce won the prize, do you suppose?
New York? Chicago? London? Paris? The prize went to Bangkok.
Barry Owen, the young Australian Creative Director, was the ɹrst to
use Thai cultural symbols in Thai advertising, thereby giving the lie
to the old charge that multinational agencies impose an alien
culture wherever they go. Says Barry, ‘What is the signiɹcance of a
Western jingle to a person who dances beautifully to the sound of a
bamboo ɻute?’
Shell oʃers motorists helpful information in booklets about emergency repairs, ɹre safety and so on. This campaign has
worked well in the United States, Sweden, Holland, Germany, France, Canada, Brazil, Australia, Austria and South Africa.
Australian advertising has also improved since I was there four
years ago; some of it is now very good indeed. Australian
advertising people are the most eclectic in the world, the dominant

inɻuence being American rather than British. The most spectacular
campaigns are being produced by a new agency called Mojo, with
Campaign Palace not far behind. But the fastest growing agency is
none other than Ogilvy & Mather, which has a broader range.
New Zealand. Considering that the population is only three
million, it is remarkable that New Zealand plays the best Rugby
football in the world, produces the best sheep, and one of the two
greatest sopranos. The advertising would be better if the best
creative people did not, like the Scottish, emigrate to richer
pastures.
Some brilliant advertising is now being created in Brazil. The headline on this one says, ‘Long before school starts, Mercedes-
Benz is already repeating its daily lesson.’
There is very little advertising in India – 37 cents per head per
annum, compared with $224 in the United States and $77 in Japan.
Indian agency people have an impressive theoretical knowledge of
advertising, but it seldom shows in their output. The 19-year-old
daughter of my Indian partner Mani Ayer calles it ‘organized
graɽti’. Nevertheless, I have seen a few Indian campaigns, such as
that for the Indian Cancer Society, which compare favorably with
anything in the West.

Indian advertisers have problems unknown in the West. Their
campaigns have to be translated into 12 languages, and the majority
of the population cannot read any language. The average Indian has
an income of $5 a week. Is it fair, do you think, to advertise
products which the majority of people will never be able to buy?
The population of India has doubled since Independence in 1947.
If it doubles again in the next 25 years – to 1,400,000,000 – the
consequence will be massive starvation. I came away from India
recently with an unshakeable resolve to ɹnd out if the skills I have
spent my life acquiring can help to solve the problem of the
birthrate. Says Mani Ayer, ‘The elimination of human suʃering is
too serious to leave to government alone.’ The Government of India
has been spending less than 10 cents per child-bearing couple per
year on family planning.
A straight-from-the-shoulder beneɹt is promised in this African poster.

In this advertisement, Australian creative director Barry Owen asks, ‘What is the signiɹcance of a Western jingle to a person
who dances beautifully to the sound of a bamboo ɻute?’
Click here for hi-res image.
In Kenya, people are lucky to earn $10 a week, and about 70 per
cent are illiterate. The principal medium of advertising is radio, and
the commercials have to be written in nine languages.
When you advertise cooking fat, you have to make your recipes ɹt
tribal eating habits; don’t give the Kikuyu recipes for fried ɹsh –
they regard ɹsh as snakes.

There are only 30,000 television sets in a population of fourteen
million, but mobile cinemas take entertainment to the rural
population. In this environment, contests work well. Unilever oʃers
scholarships as prizes. When asked to increase the sales of Vaseline,
the Nairobi oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather mounted a contest with a cow
as ɹrst prize.
In 1978 the Indian Cancer Society used advertising to persuade people to have regular check-ups at its free clinics. The
advertisements, by the Bombay oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather, showed real people who had been cured. Within two months the
number of check-ups tripled.
Communist advertising – primitive but not forbidden
Considering the venom with which left-wingers in capitalist
countries denounce advertising, you might suppose that Communist
countries would eschew this capitalist tool. Not so. The Soviet party
line was laid down long ago by Anastas Mikoyan, the old Bolshevik
who was in charge of foreign and domestic trade under Stalin and
Krushchev:

‘The task of our Soviet advertising is to give people exact
information about the goods that are on sale, to help to create
new demands, to cultivate new tastes and requirements, to
promote the sales of new kinds of goods and to explain their
uses to the consumer.’
I could not have said it better myself However, apart from
campaigns for good causes like reducing alcoholism, there is little or
no advertising in the USSR, although foreign companies are allowed
to advertise their industrial products, and there is a state-owned
agency, whose oɽcials are courteous, helpful and eɽcient.

Hungary produces the best advertising in the communist world. There are several agencies and they use not only newspapers
and magazines, but also television.


Why does the majority of Communist advertising have to be so amateurish?
In Hungary, the advertising scene is little diʃerent from that in
Western Europe. There are several agencies and they advertise in
newspapers, magazines and television. There is even a magazine
about advertising.

A conɹdent re-working of the Johnny Walker theme from Hungary.
In Czechoslovakia there are two agencies, and they advertise in
newspapers and magazines as well as on television and radio. There
is also an agency in Poland, but it has ɹltered out its creative talent,
replacing them with bureaucrats.
There is one agency in Romania, and considerable advertising for
consumer products. I know nothing about advertising in East
Germany or Bulgaria.
China
Until 1977 advertising in China was considered evil, so there wasn’t
any. But in 1978 the government endorsed its use. The
advertisements look like speciɹcation sheets. There are commercials
on Chinese television, most of them for industrial products like

electric motors; the waste circulation must be astronomic. There is
no need to advertise consumer products, because most of them are in
short supply.
In Communist China, advertising has been permitted since 1978.
The most important advertising medium in China is radio, the
communal speaker system reaching 75 per cent of the population.
The commercials are broadcast twice a day, one after another. There
are 40 local newspapers, but they consist of only two sheets and
their advertising content is less than 25 per cent. There are 160
magazines, mostly devoted to trade and technical subjects, and
there are billboards in the big cities.
There are no less than 67 advertising agencies, of which 17 are
responsible for advertising Chinese products in foreign countries,
and foreign products in China. Dentsu, the Japanese agency, has
small oɽces in Peking and Shanghai, and McCann-Erickson has an
oɽce in Peking.

Young & Rubicam ɻy their ɻag on this giant billboard in Shanghai.
If I knew anything about advertising in Japan, I would tell you.
But I don’t – yet.
In short, while the volume of advertising is still growing in the
United States, it is growing faster in the rest of the world, and
America is no longer top nation professionally. The tortoises are
overtaking the hare.
1In Advertising Inside Out, W.H. Allen, London 1977

