# 6. Open letter to a client in search of an agency

Paginas: 103-107

6
Open letter to a client in search of
an agency
Sir or Madam,
If you have decided to hire a new agency, permit me to suggest a
simple way to go about it.
Don’t delegate the selection to a committee of pettyfoggers. They
usually get it wrong. Do it yourself.
Start by leaɹng through some magazines. Tear out the
advertisements you envy, and ɹnd out which agencies did them.
Watch television for three evenings, make a list of the
commercials you envy, and ɹnd out which agencies did them.
You now have a list of agencies. Find out which are working for
your competitors, and thus unavailable to you.
By this time you have a short list. Meet the head of each agency
and his Creative Director. Make sure the chemistry between you and
them is good. Happy marriages fructify, unhappy ones don’t.
But don’t ask to meet the working-level people who would be
assigned to your account. You might ɹnd them congenial, but have
no way of judging their talent. Or you might ɹnd them repulsive –
some of the most talented people are. A prospective client once
passed up an opportunity to hire Ogilvy & Mather because the very
able copywriter to whom I introduced him had long hair.
Ask to see each agency’s six best print ads and six best television
commercials. Pick the agency whose campaigns interest you the most.
Ask what the agency charges. If it is 15 per cent, insist on paying
16 per cent. The extra one per cent won’t kill you, but it will double
the agency’s normal proɹt, and you will get better service. Whatever

you do, don’t haggle over the agency’s compensation. I know a big
corporation which insists that its agencies negotiate terms of
business with its Purchasing Department, as though they were
selling oɽce furniture. Would they do this with lawyers and
accountants?
Insist on a ɹve-year contract. This will delight the agency – and
protect you from being resigned if one of your competitors ever tries
to seduce them with a bigger budget.
Now you have your agency, are you going to get the best out of them?
Clients get the advertising they deserve. I know some who are a
malediction, and others who are an inspiration.
Don’t keep a dog and bark yourself. When Arthur Houghton asked me to do the advertising for Steuben Glass he said, ‘We
make the best glass. Your job is to make the best advertising.’ An admirable division of labor.
Don’t keep a dog and bark yourself. Any fool can write a bad
advertisement, but it takes a genius to keep his hands oʃ a good
one. I had just ɹnished showing a new campaign to Charlie Kelstadt,
the Chairman of Sears Roebuck, when his Comptroller came into the
room, started to read my copy – and took a fountain-pen out of his
pocket. ‘Put that pen back in your pocket,’ snapped Kelstadt.

Once a year give your agency a formal report on its performance.
This will serve as an early warning of trouble which, if ignored,
could end badly for all concerned.
One of the biggest corporations in the world allows ɹve levels to
chew up its advertising. Each level has the power to veto, but only
the Chief Executive Oɽcer has the power of ɹnal approval. Don’t
strain your agency’s output through more than two levels.
Even the best copywriters are preternaturally thin-skinned. When
you have to reject their work, do it gently, and praise them to the
skies when they perform well. They are the geese who can lay
golden eggs. Inspire them to keep laying. The most inspiring client I
have ever had was Ted Moscoso, the economic head of the
Government of Puerto Rico. The day he hired us, he said to me,
‘Before we start advertising, we have to decide what we want Puerto
Rico to become. A bridge between Latin America and the United
States? An oasis of old Spanish culture? A modern industrial park?’
We talked all night. On later occasions, whenever I made a
suggestion which appealed to his imagination – such as starting a
music festival in San Juan – Moscoso would make a note in his
pocket diary; action always followed. Governor Muñoz Marín, who
was Ted’s chief, would have made a good President of the United
States. When their party was ɹnally defeated, the new Republican
governor moved the advertising to an agency which had handled his
campaign in the election. I have never wept so bitterly.

This ad was one of a series for Puerto Rico. The campaign was initiated by my most inspiring client, Ted Moscoso of the
Puerto Rico Government.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Conɻicts
There is a convention that agencies should not serve more than one
client in any category. When we do the advertising for Blogg’s Shoe
Polish, we are not supposed to take on Mogg’s Shoe Polish. Some
clients are ɹercely jealous when their agencies violate this
convention, to the point of ɹring them.
It sounds simple, but it is a mineɹeld. Suppose the agency has a
shoe polish account, and another of its clients decides to go into the
shoe polish business. What do we do?
Suppose we have a shoe polish account in our Vienna oɽce, and
our Kuala Lumpur oɽce is oʃered another shoe polish. What do we
do?
Some clients extend the deɹnition of conɻict to include any
product which might indirectly reduce their sales. Suppose we have a
shoe polish account and are oʃered a sandal account – wooden
sandals, which don’t require polish. What do we do?

Such conɻicts as these bedevil agencies. Says Marvin Bower of
McKinsey:
‘If a company rests its policy of not letting its agencies serve
competitors on the need for security of information, it does not
have a very solid base. As a matter of realism, the interests of
competing clients would not be harmed by an almost complete
exchange of information among the people serving the two
competing companies. Of course, no responsible personal service
ɹrm would do that – and indeed they go to great lengths to avoid
even inadvertent exchanges. Nevertheless, as one who has been a
repository of conɹdential information over many years, I am
convinced that the history, makeup, ways of doing business,
attitudes of people, operating philosophy and procedures of even
directly competing companies are ordinarily so diʃerent that
information could be exchanged between them with no harm to
either’
If I were you, I would think twice about ɹring my agency when it
committed bigamy; another agency might not give you such good
advertising. Amour propre can be an expensive luxury.
PS. If your account is too small to interest a good agency, ɹnd an
experienced copywriter who has retired and pay him to do your
advertising. He will enjoy getting back into harness, and
welcome the money.

