# 15. 18 Miracles of research

Paginas: 251-264

A
15
18 Miracles of research
dvertising people who ignore research are as dangerous as
generals who ignore decodes of enemy signals. Before I became a
copywriter, I was a researcher. I delivered the ɹrst paper on copy-
testing in the history of British advertising. Later I ran Dr. Gallup’s
Audience Research Institute in Princeton, predicting how many
people would see movies before they were produced, measuring the
ability of the stars to sell tickets at the box oɽce, and so on.
The best fun I ever had was in the early days of Ogilvy & Mather,
when I was both Research Director and Creative Director. On Friday
afternoons I wrote research reports to the Creative Director. On
Monday mornings I changed hats, read my reports and decided what
to do about them – if anything. In due course I was able to aʃord
the services of Stanley Canter, a far better researcher. It took Stanley
only ten days to get me out of his department. Like I always say,
hire people who are better than you are.
Here are 18 of the miracles research can perform for you:
1 It can measure the reputation of your company among consumers,
security analysts, government oɽcials, newspaper editors, the
academic community.
2 Using mathematical models, research can estimate the sales of
new products, and the advertising expenditures required to achieve
maximum proɹts. The Hendry, Assessor, Sprinter, ESP and News
models are suɽciently reliable to tell you whether your product
warrants the expense of test marketing. (About 60 per cent of new
products fail in test markets.)

3 Research can get consumer reactions to a new product when it is
still in the conceptual state. After one of our clients had invested
$600,000 in developing a line of food products for senior citizens
whose digestions were deteriorating, our research found a notable
lack of enthusiasm among the old parties concerned. When I
reported this disappointing news to the client, I was afraid that, like
most executives faced with inconvenient research, he would argue
with our methodology. I underestimated him. ‘Dry hole’, said he,
and left the meeting.

This chart from the author’s Continuing Audit of Marquee Values analysed Ronald Reagan’s popularity at the height of his
career as a movie-star.
4 Once a product is ready for market, research can tell you how
consumers rate it compared with the products they are now buying.
If they ɹnd your product inferior, send it back to your Research and
Development people.
5 Research can tell you what formulation, ɻavor, fragrance and
color will appeal to most consumers.

6 Research can ɹnd out which of several package designs will sell
best. While you’re about it, ɹnd out if people can open your
package. I shall never forget Cornelia Otis Skinner demonstrating to
a big food company that she could not open their products without
a pair of pliers.
7 Research can help you decide the optimum positioning for your
product.
8 Research can deɹne your target audience. Men or women. Young
or old. Rich or poor. Education. Life style. Media habits.
9 It can ɹnd out what factors are most important in the purchase
decision, and what vocabulary consumers use when talking about
your kind of product.
10 Research can determine what ‘line extension’ is likely to sell
best. After Dove carved out a proɹtable niche in the soap market,
Lever Brothers fell to wondering what other products could be
marketed under the same name. Research revealed that a liquid for
washing dishes stood the best chance, and it was successfully
introduced.
11 Research can warn you when consumers show signs of ɹnding an
established product less desirable than it once was. Maybe they have
noticed that you have been using cheaper ingredients; they usually
do.
12 Research can save you time and money by ‘reading’ your
competitor’s test markets – even his cost of goods and proɹt margin.
All the information is there to get, if you know where to ɹnd it.
13 Research can determine the most persuasive promise. ‘Promise,
large promise is the soul of an advertisement,’ said Samuel Johnson.
When he auctioned oʃ the contents of the Anchor Brewery he made
the following promise: ‘We are not here to sell boilers and vats, but
the potentiality of growing rich beyond the dreams of avarice.’

Dr. Johnson was right 200 years ago, and there is abundant
evidence that he is still right today. Advertising which promises no
beneɹt to the consumer does not sell, yet the majority of campaigns
contain no promise whatever. (That is the most important sentence
in this book. Read it again.)
Only last year Starch reported that advertisements with headlines
that promise a beneɹt are read by an average of four times more
people than advertisements that don’t.
In my experience, the selection of the promise is the most
valuable contribution that research can make to the advertising
process. One method is to show the consumer a number of promises,
telling him or her that each promise is for a new product. The
consumer is asked to rate the promises for importance and
uniqueness.
Another technique, which I prefer, is not favored by researchers,
perhaps because it is so simple and does not require their services.
You write two advertisements for your product, each with a
diʃerent promise in the headline. At the end of the copy you oʃer a
free sample of the product. You then run the advertisements in a
newspaper or magazine, in such a way that half the circulation gets
one headline, and the other half gets the other headline. The
headline which draws the more applications for a sample wins the
test. This technique, which is called split-run, was invented by
Richard Stanton. Its merit is that it tests promises in the context of
advertisements, instead of the unreal context of an interview. But
you can only test two headlines at a time.
Try to ɹnd a promise which is not only persuasive, but also unique.
For example, ‘makes a perfect cup of coʃee every time’ may get the
highest score on persuasion, but it is not unique. You may ɹnd that
‘gets you clean’ is the winning promise for a soap, but I doubt if it is
suɽciently unique to make the cash register ring.
Sometimes you will ɹnd that the promise which wins your test is
already being used by one of your competitors. Poor you.
14 Research can tell you which of several premiums will work best.
When thirty-ɹve diʃerent premiums were tested by Shell, steak

knives won. Diʃerent designs of steak knives were then tested. When
I suggested that packets of shells from Sanibel Island should be
oʃered to motorists who used Shell credit cards, I was coldly
informed that shells had been tested and had received a very low
score. In France, they were used as the premium without being
tested, and ɻopped.
15 Research can tell you whether your advertising communicates
what you want it to communicate. Keep in mind E. B. White’s
warning, ‘When you say something, make sure you have said it. The
chances of your having said it are only fair’
16 Research can tell you which of several television commercials
will sell the most.
What is the best technique for pre-testing television commercials?
This is the most controversial issue in the advertising business, but
there is common agreement among researchers that testing for recall
is for the birds. Yet, for reasons which escape me, most advertisers
still insist on using it. It has four shortcomings:
A  Nobody has been able to demonstrate a relationship between
recall and sales.
B  Some commercials which score about average on recall, score
below average on their ability to change the viewer’s brand
preference. Celebrity commercials, for example, usually score
above average on recall and below average on changing brand
preference.
C  It is too easy for the copywriter to cheat. ‘When I want a high
recall score,’ says my partner David Scott, ‘all I have to do is to
show a gorilla in a jock strap.’
D  It is open to question whether recall tests even measure recall.
I believe they measure the viewer’s ability to articulate what he
or she recalls, which is a very diʃerent thing.

For all these reasons, I prefer testing methods which measure your
commercial’s ability to change brand preferences.
Research can measure the wear-out of your advertising. For ɹve
years, the theme of Shell’s commercials was mileage, and tracking
studies recorded increasingly favorable attitudes to the product.
When attitudes ɹnally stopped improving, the advertising was
changed from demonstrations of mileage to consumer testimonials,
and the upward trend was resumed.
17 Research can tell you how many people read your
advertisements, and how many remember them.
What do grown-ups read in newspapers? The comic strips? The
editorials? The weather? The stock market? The sports pages? The
main news items? The columnists? Until Gallup came along, editors
hadn’t the faintest idea who read what.
Gallup invented a method of measuring readership. He interviewed
representative samples of readers, took them through the newspaper
and had them point to the things they had read. It came as a
surprise to editors when he reported that more people read the
comics then their editorials, and that captions under photographs
were read by more people than the articles. When he repeated the
same research in Britain, he got the same results. During World War
II my brother Francis, then a Wing Commander in the Royal Air
Force, slept in the underground bunker which was the center of the
high command. He told me that when the Generals, Admirals and
Air Marshals came into breakfast, they looked at the comic strips in
the Daily Mirror before they read the headlines in The Times.

The author and George Gallup.
When Raymond Rubicam got wind of Gallup’s research, he
persuaded him to join Young & Rubicam and apply the same
method to measuring the readership of advertisements. At about the
same time, Daniel Starch started syndicating readership reports to
agencies and advertisers, and his successors still do so. The day I
spent watching a Starch interviewer at work in the ɹeld convinced
me that the procedure is reasonably valid.
18 Research can settle arguments. When Lord Geddes became
Chairman of British Travel, he argued that we should feature trout
ɹshing in advertisements – until I pulled out of a chart showing that
ɹshing interested American tourists less than all the 49 other
subjects we had tested.

Outside George Gallup’s oɽce in Princeton, long ago, the author asks a moviegoer if she would pay money to see Abe Lincoln
in Illinois. She said she would, but she was kidding herself.
Armed with this kind of information, it is diɽcult not to defeat
competitors who ɻy blind. But there are two vital questions that
research cannot answer:
Which campaign will make the biggest contribution to your
brand over a period of years? Here you still have to rely on
judgment.

What price should you charge for your product? This is one of
the most important questions which confront marketers, but,
as far as I know, research cannot answer it.
Given suɽcient training, any intelligent person can learn to conduct
surveys, but getting people to use the results requires salesmanship
of a high order. When I did research for the motion picture industry,
I had my reports set in type and printed. I found that the Hollywood
producers were less likely to argue with printed documents than
typewritten memos.
Size of sample
Surveys can produce reliable results with amazingly small samples.
If you want to know whether the word obsolete is understood by
housewives, you don’t need an answer which will be statistically
reliable within two percentage points. Twenty housewives will
suɽce. When, however, you are looking for trends over time, you
had better use larger samples to be sure that any changes are
statistically signiɹcant. You must also hold the composition of your
sample and the wording of your questions rigidly constant.
Pitfalls of research
Some
interviewers
ɹnd
it
more
comfortable
to
answer
questionnaires themselves than to accost strangers. An enterprising
London pub used to cater to them by setting aside a private room
where they could drink beer while ɹlling out questionnaires.
Respondents do not always tell the truth to interviewers. I used to
start my questionnaires by asking, ‘Which would you rather hear on
the radio tonight – Jack Benny or a Shakespeare play?’ If the
respondent said Shakespeare, I knew he was a liar and broke oʃ the
interview.
When Gone With the Wind was a runaway best seller, we asked a
cross-section of the adult population whether they had read it. The
number of yes replies was obviously inɻated; people did not want to
admit that they hadn’t read it. The following week we put the

question diʃerently: ‘Do you plan to read Gone With the Wind?’ It
was easy for those who hadn’t read it to answer yes, they planned to
read it, while those who had already read it said so. This produced a
credible result.
Waiting for a train in Pennsylvania station one evening, I was
accosted by an interviewer and asked questions which I had written
two days before. They were impossible to answer. I went back to my
oɽce and canceled the survey.
A food manufacturer had to decide whether to sell his product in
cans or glass jars. He guessed that some housewives would vote for
glass because they thought glass sounded more prestigious, so he
gave out samples of his product in glass and other samples in cans.
Two weeks later he called back and asked the housewives which
samples tasted better. A large majority declared that the product in
the jars tasted better than the same product in the cans. Without
knowing it, they were voting for glass.
In a study of the causes of inɻation, the French Government cut
thousands of cheeses in half and put them on sale. One half were
marked 37 centimes, the other 56 centimes. The higher-priced cheese
sold faster. Consumers judge the quality of a product by its price.
Research among children
If you think that advertising to children is satanic, skip the next two
pages. If, on the other hand, you earn your living making toys or
breakfast cereals, you may be interested to learn how research can
make your advertising produce more sales.
Children understand only the simplest questions, and cannot
easily articulate their replies. They also tend to say what they think
you want them to say. Here are three procedures which work
reasonably well:
Group dynamics. You show your commercial to a group of
children and then get them to play games, like talking to a
friend on a play telephone about your commercial. Or you get

them to imitate the characters in the commercial. This
procedure reveals misunderstandings and negative reactions.
Communication discrepancy. This procedure is for somewhat
older children. You show them your commercial and ask them
what it told them about the product, and what they liked about
it. Then you show them the product itself and ask what they
like about it. By comparing what they said about the
commercial and what they say about the product itself, you ɹnd
out whether your commercial does your product justice. If it
doesn’t, you can usually ɹx it.
Suppose you show a doll commercial. Only 20 per cent of the
children say they like the fact that the doll can walk. But when
they see the doll itself, 60 per cent say they like this. Obviously
the commercial has not done justice to the doll.
If, on the other hand, you ɹnd that your commercial raises
hopes which are disappointed when the children see the doll, I
have little doubt that, being an honest person, you will modify
the commercial.
Prize pad test. You give children a pad on which four toys are
illustrated, including the one you are advertising, and ask them
to circle the toy they would like you to give them. Then, after
showing them your commercial, you say that some of the
children forgot to put their names on the pad, which is
probably true. You hand out new pads and again ask them to
circle the toy they want. By comparing the votes, you get a
measurement of your commercial’s persuasion. After doing this
with several toys and several commercials, you can relate your
score to the norm.
Gentle reader and fellow parent, if you think it unseemly for
researchers to enrol children as guinea-pigs, it will comfort you to
know that they are now protected from us admen by ferocious
regulations. For example, we are no longer allowed to tell children
to importune their mothers to buy our products. Other regulations
in force in the United States include these:

‘Appeals shall not be used which directly or by implication
contend that if children have a product they are better than
their peers, or lacking it, will not be accepted by their peers.’
‘Material shall not be used which can reasonably be expected
to frighten children or provoke anxiety, nor shall material be
used which contains a portrayal of or appeal to violent,
dangerous or otherwise anti-social behavior’
‘Advertisements shall not include any dramatizations of any
product in a realistic war atmosphere.’
‘Advertisements shall include audio and video disclosure
when items such as batteries needed to operate a product as
demonstrated in the advertising are not included.’
‘When a toy is presented in the context of a play
environment, the setting and situation shall be that which a
child is reasonably capable of reproducing.’
‘Advertising shall not employ costumes and props which are
not available with the toy as sold, or are not reasonably
accessible to the child without additional cost.’
‘Each commercial for breakfast-type products shall include at
least one audio reference to and one video depiction of the
role of the product within the framework of a balanced
regimen.’
Just try writing a commercial which obeys thirty-four regulations
like these.
Where I come out
Few copywriters share my appetite for research. The late and great
Bill Bernbach, among many others, thought that it inhibited
creativity. My experience has been the opposite. Research has often
lead me to good ideas, such as the eyepatch in the Hathaway
campaign.

I have seen ideas so wild that nobody in his senses would dare to
use them – until research found that they worked. When I had the
idea of writing headlines for French tourism in French, my partners
told me I was nuts – until research revealed that French headlines
were more eʃective than English headlines. Research has also saved
me from making some horrendous mistakes.
I admit that research is often misused by agencies and their
clients. They have a way of using it to prove they are right. They use
research as a drunkard uses a lamppost – not for illumination but for
support. On the whole, however, research can be of incalculable
help in producing more eʃective advertising.

