# 11. The secrets of success in business-to-business advertising

Paginas: 218-226

11
The secrets of success in business-
to-business advertising
It used to be called trade advertising, or industrial advertising, but its
practitioners have taken to calling it ‘business-to-business,’ which
sounds classier. It means products that people buy for their
companies, not for themselves. I will tell you what I have learned
about it, drawing heavily and gratefully on research conducted by
McGraw-Hill.
Print
McGraw-Hill tells us that the average salesman’s call costs $178, a
letter $6.63 and a phone call $6.35, while you can reach a prospect
through advertising for only 17 cents.
Admittedly an advertisement, however eɽcient, can seldom close
a sale itself. Its function is to pave the way for salesmen, by pre-
selling your product and attracting leads.
In industrial companies there are an average of four ‘buying
inɻuences.’ Your sales force is unlikely to know all four. Sixty per
cent of ‘speciɹers’ – people who set down the speciɹcations that
must be met – read advertisements to learn what’s on the market.
By and large, the advertising techniques that work in this kind of
advertising are the same as the techniques that work in consumer
advertising – like promising the reader a beneɹt, news, testimonials,
and helpful information.
Make sure that what you promise is important to your customer.
A supplier of computer software was proud of the size of his
company and wanted to make it the feature of his advertising, but

research found that his customers were not interested in size. They
were looking for responsiveness, support, service – and a good
product.
Make your promise speciɹc. Instead of generalities, use
percentages, time elapsed, dollars saved. You are talking to
engineers.
Testimonials work well, as long as they come from experts in
reputable companies. A testimonial from Bud Dacus impresses
tugboat engineers because Bud has worked the Mississippi for 25
years – longer than Mark Twain.
Demonstrations are most eʃective when they compare your
product’s performance with your competitors’. Try to devise a
simple demonstration that your reader can perform himself, like
inviting him to scrape the liner of your air-duct with a coin to see
how tough it is.

Testimonials work well when they come from recognized experts in well-known companies.
News works well. It appears that readers scan the advertisements
in technical journals looking for new products. To my surprise, a
McGraw-Hill study found that advertising is twice as eʃective as an
article in the same journal. Be sure to proclaim your news, loud and
clear.
Information that is useful to the reader in his job can also be
eʃective, provided the information involves your product. For
example, you can show the reader how to calculate the amount of
money he could save by using your product.

Some copywriters, assuming that the reader will ɹnd the product
as boring as they do, try to inveigle him into their ads with pictures
of babies, beagles and bosoms. This is a mistake. A buyer of ɻexible
pipe for oʃshore oil rigs is more interested in pipe than anything
else in the world. So play it straight.
Layouts should be simple, avoiding the arty devices dear to
second-rate art directors – like type which is too big to be readable,
eccentric designs and headlines at the bottom of the page. If you
make your ads look like editorial pages, you will get more readers.
Far more.
Some copywriters, assuming that the reader will ɹnd the product as boring as they do, try to inveigle him into their ads with
pictures of babies, beagles and bosoms. A mistake.
Headlines get ɹve times the readership of the body copy. If your
headline doesn’t sell, you have wasted your money. Your headline
should promise a beneɹt, or deliver news, or oʃer a service, or tell a
signiɹcant story, or recognize a problem, or quote a satisɹed
customer.
Body copy is seldom read by more than 10 per cent of the readers
of a publication. But that 10 per cent consists of prospects – people

interested enough in what you are selling to take the trouble to read
about it. What you say to them determines the success of your
advertisement.
When you advertise bubblegum or underwear, there isn’t much to
say, but a computer or a generator calls for long copy. Don’t be
afraid to write it. Long copy – more than 350 words – actually
attracts more readers than short copy.
In business publications four-color ads cost only a third more than
black and white, but they attract twice as many readers. Four-color
is a good buy.
Captions should appear under all your photographs. Twice as
many people read them as read body copy. And use your captions to
sell. The best captions are mini-advertisements in themselves.
Television
Business-to-business advertisers are turning increasingly to television.
The audiences for many sports and news programs include a high
percentage of business people and are therefore eɽcient buys. The
principles that apply to consumer advertising on television are
equally valid for business-to-business commercials.

It pays to devise a demonstration that your readers can perform for themselves, like this one.
Click here for hi-res image.
News and demonstrations work particularly well. Even humor has
its place, as in the hilarious Ally and Gargano commercials for
Federal Express. But it is worth noting that the humor in these
commercials always supports the powerful end promise: ‘Federal
Express – when it absolutely has to be there overnight.’
Some products used by business cannot be sold in 30 seconds. In
such cases, I advise you to sacriɹce frequency to delivering a
thorough sales message. For IBM computers we used three minutes.
Many small business-to-business advertisers shy away from
television because commercials cost so much to produce, but
inexpensive commercials can be highly eʃective – if they come
directly, to the point and oʃer something of genuine interest. I have
seen a television commercial for an industrial product produce so
many inquiries that it had to be taken oʃ the air; the salesmen
couldn’t handle any more. One commercial for another industrial
product produced more inquiries in two months than print
advertising had produced in a year. (However, the print advertising
produced a higher rate of conversion to sales.)

Diʃerentiating commodity products
Many industrial products are thought to be little more than
commodities, with no apparent diʃerences between them. How do
you diʃerentiate your bolts, washers or machine tools from those of
your competitors? But, says Professor Levitt, ‘there is no such thing
as a commodity. All goods and services are diʃerentiable.’
In a Harvard Business Review article, Professor William K. Hall
reported on a study of eight industries, from steel to beer. The most
successful companies were those that best diʃerentiated their
product or service.
According to Professor Hall, the most successful commodity
products diʃerentiated themselves in one of two ways: either by low
cost or by having the best reputation for quality or service.
Advertising can help you spread the news about any price advantage
you may have, and it can work wonders in creating a reputation for
quality or service.
Before 1972, Owens-Corning sold its insulation to builders for use
in new homes. In those days insulation was all the same – a
commodity. And so the Owens-Corning advertising looked pretty
much like its competitors. Later, when fuel prices went up and
construction
of
new
homes
went
down,
Owens-Corning
diʃerentiated its insulation as the brand of choice for owners of old
homes who want to reduce their fuel costs. This was done by
latching onto an apparently unimportant feature: the unique color of
the Owens-Corning product.
Today Owens-Corning Fiberglas has escaped from the ‘commodity
trap.’ It has by far the best reputation for quality among all
insulation material, being preferred 3 to 1 over the second brand.
How to stimulate inquiries
McGraw-Hill reports that nearly all inquiries come from people who
have a speciɹc need or application in mind; and a substantial
percentage of them buy within six months of their inquiry.
Always put a toll-free number in your advertisements, to make the
inquiry as fast and as easy as possible. In the United States, seven

out of ten readers of trade journals now use such numbers. Include a
business reply card and a coupon requesting more information. This
combination guarantees you the greatest number of productive
inquiries.
In addition, close your body copy with your oʃer, your address and
phone number. The average business publication is read by three
readers besides the subscriber. If the ɹrst reader cuts out the
coupon, the others cannot respond to the oʃer without the second
address.
Analyse your inquiries
Analyse your inquiries and the action they produce. This will enable
you to answer your boss’s inevitable question: ‘What tangible results
am I getting from my advertising?’ Here are three ways to analyse
inquiries:
1 Survey a sample of inquirers. Do they intend to buy your
product? To bide their time until a salesman calls? Or simply to
keep your product in mind for the future?
2 Question the sales people who follow up the inquiries. Did
the inquiry lead to a sale? Was this account a new prospect?
How did the salesman rate this prospect – a one-time sale, a
growth account, a dead end? The discovery of a single major
sale resulting from an inquiry can do more than anything else
to demonstrate the value of your advertising.
3 Relate inquiries to the media that produced them. This can
help you ɹne-tune your media selection. By doing this, one
manufacturer was able to reduce his advertising budget by 25
per cent.

An eʃective strategy in business advertising is to show the reader how he can calculate the money your product would save
him. This advertisement got the highest readership everywhere it ran, and brought hundreds of requests for reprints.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
Advertising to top management
Many business purchases require approval from top management as
well as the purchasing agent. Top managers may not respond to, or
even understand, the details that are important to the speciɹers.
They are only interested in the broad beneɹts – particularly cost
savings.
It sometimes pays to run separate campaigns – one addressed to
top management, the other to the specialists who read trade
publications.

