# 18. Lasker, Resor, Rubicam, Burnett, Hopkins and Bernbach

Paginas: 295-324

B
18
Lasker, Resor, Rubicam, Burnett,
Hopkins and Bernbach
Six giants who invented modern advertising
y conɹning my selection of giants to those who are dead, I
avoid the embarrassment of choosing among my partners – and my
contemporaries in other agencies.
What, if anything, did these six giants have in common? All six of
them were American. All six had other jobs before they went into
advertising.
At
least
ɹve
were
gluttons
for
work,
and
uncompromising perfectionists. Four made their reputations as
copywriters. Only three had university degrees.
ALBERT LASKER 1880-1952
Albert Lasker made more money than anyone in the history of the
advertising business. And spent more. And got his money’s worth.
The son of a prosperous German immigrant, he started his career
as a reporter on the Galveston Morning News, covering sports, crime,
religious services, theater, business and politics. When he was 18 his
father got him a job at the Lord & Thomas agency in Chicago. At
ɹrst he had to clean out the spittoons, but quickly became a
champion canvasser for new business, criss-crossing the Midwest by
train, buggy and sleigh. When he was 20 he bought Lord & Thomas,
and remained its head until he retired 44 years later.
Lasker was more than an advertising man. In 1918 he came under
the inɻuence of Theodore Roosevelt, and this led to his taking four

years oʃ as the head of propaganda for the Republican Party and
later the chairman of the Shipping Board. In those days he was a
militant isolationist, but he lived to become one of Wendell Wilkie’s
strongest supporters in the One World movement, and did
everything he could to advance the foreign policy of Franklin
Roosevelt and Harry Truman.
Albert Lasker made more money, spent more and gave more away than anybody in the history of advertising. And he got his
money’s worth.
At the age of 65 he started collecting pictures, and died owning
nine Matisses, seventeen Picassos and a hundred other pictures of
the ɹrst rank. He once bought half a dozen Marie Laurencins to give
away as Christmas presents.
He was a brilliant philanthropist, and gave a large part of his
fortune to medical research.
But it was as an advertising man that Lasker excelled. When he
ɹrst joined Lord & Thomas, then the third biggest agency in the
country, they employed only one half-time copywriter and paid him
$15 a week. Then John E. Kennedy, a Canadian policeman turned

copywriter, came into his life and persuaded him that advertising
was ‘salesmanship in print’, a deɹnition that has never been
improved. Lasker said later, ‘The history of advertising could never
be written without ɹrst place being given to John E. Kennedy, for
every copywriter throughout the length and breadth of this land is
today being guided by the principles he laid down.’
Lasker held that if an agency could write copy which sold the
product, nothing else was needed. For years he refused to employ an
art director, and when he ɹnally gave in it was only because he had
observed that illustrated advertisements were easier to sell to
clients. His attitude to research was equally contemptuous. He used
to say that he was perfectly able to give his clients advice ‘without
having to lose six months going out to do research, only to come
back and tell us that a jackass has two ears’. He never had what is
called today a ‘marketing’ department. His intuitive genius for
marketing can be illustrated in a story he told about the early days
of women’s sanitary napkins.
‘When the Kotex people came to us, the business wasn’t
growing as fast as they thought it should. We didn’t have to
make investigations among millions of women. Just a few of us
talked to our wives and asked them if they used Kotex, and we
found they didn’t, and in almost every case it was because they
didn’t like to ask the druggist for it. So we developed the simple
idea of putting plain wrapped packages on the dealer’s counter
so that you could walk into your dealer and walk away with a
wrapped package without embarrassment. The business
boomed by leaps and bounds.’
By dispensing with marketers, art directors and researchers, Lasker
saved so much money that he was able to make a proɹt of 7 per
cent – probably the world’s record. If an agency makes more than 1
per cent today, it is exceptional.
He ran Lord & Thomas as a dictatorship. ‘As you all know,’ he told
his staʃ, ‘I am the owner of this business and therefore I decide the
policies. Lord & Thomas is the trade name for Albert D. Lasker

practicing advertising.’ He owned 95 per cent of the shares. After he
retired he said that he had never attended a directors’ meeting and
did not think that one had ever been held.
He hired able men, paid them well and trained them well. He
used to say, ‘I can get more out of people than they have in them.’
But the turnover was ferocious. At one point the heads of nine major
agencies were Lasker alumni. He used to say, ’I make my men so
good that I can’t keep ‘em.’ Before writing his biography of Lasker,1
John Gunther asked some of his people what they thought had been
his greatest qualities. The consensus was that he combined a sense
of detail with a gift for grasping the big picture, and that he had a
genius for predicting the reactions of consumers. In addition, his
vitality and magnetism were irresistible, and he worked ɹfteen
hours a day. No wonder he made Lord & Thomas the biggest agency
in the world – for a time.
He loathed talking on the telephone, and abominated committees.
He never belonged to an advertising club, and avoided his
competitors. He resigned several huge accounts out of pique,
including General Electric, Quaker Oats and RCA, and after his
retirement encouraged his successors to resign Lucky Strike.
He had himself driven about in a yellow Rolls-Royce. And, like
me, he hated reverse type – ‘if it was natural to read that way, the
New York Times would be printed that way.’
He was not shy about conspicuous consumption. His weekend
estate outside Chicago had a staʃ of ɹfty. The gardens covered 97
acres, with six miles of clipped hedges – compared with only one
mile in my garden today. And there was an 18-hole golf course.
He once deɹned an administrator as ‘somebody without brains’,
but as an administrator himself, he could be ruthless. In the
Depression he cut all salaries by 25 per cent when he was taking
$3,000,000 a year for himself, and then, at one fell swoop, ɹred 50
men and women many of whom had been with him for years.
For all his ɹnancial acumen, he made at least one major blunder.
When his father died, Lasker inherited a lot of Texas real estate. He
promptly sold what was to become some of the richest oil land in
the world, and a quarter of downtown Houston. That, plus his

philanthropies and his extravagance, is why he left only
$11,500,000 instead of a billion. He once said, ‘I didn’t want to
make a great fortune. I wanted to show what I could do with my
brains.’
His emotional make-up was uncomfortable. Gunther, who knew
him well, says that he was sensitive and perceptive, and that he had
a bubbling sense of humor. But he could be overbearing, intolerant
and arrogant, once being heard to say, ‘There is no advertising man
in the world but me.’ I don’t think he was joking. His ɹrst wife said
that he gave her everything except himself He could be bad-
tempered, demanding and inconsiderate. And he had three
prolonged nervous breakdowns.
The best advertisement for Albert Lasker is his widow Mary. She
has administered his medical foundation with superb ability, and is
one of New York’s most constructive citizens. On the one occasion I
met her, she told me the story of her husband’s abdication. One
afternoon, late in 1942, he suddenly said to her, ‘Mary, I have
decided to get out of the advertising business.’ Two days later he
gave Lord & Thomas to three of his bright young men (Foote, Cone
and Belding), for a token payment of $100,000 – on condition that
the name Lord & Thomas should be taken oʃ the masthead. He lived
another ten years.
STANLEY RESOR 1879-1962
Stanley Resor was the Brahmin of the advertising business. Austere,
digniɹed, cultured, beautifully mannered and rather donnish.
When he became head of J. Walter Thompson, the agency was
billing $3,000,000 a year. When he retired 45 years later, it was the
biggest in the world, with billings of $500,000,000.
The secret of his success was his ability to attract exceptionally
able men, and to treat them with so much respect that they never
left. They included Sam Meek, James Webb Young, Henry Stanton,
Ken Hinks and Gilbert Kinney. No other agency has ever had a team
of such caliber, or kept it together so long.

Resor was never overbearing like Lasker. He managed by
consensus, distrusting what he called Individual Opinion, and
thought that brilliance was dangerous.
His agency was structured in the loosest possible way. He detested
hierarchies. There were no department heads, and no job
descriptions. The agency operated as a partnership, like a big law
ɹrm. When he oʃered me a job, he gave me no inkling what work
he had in mind for me. Oɽce boy? Copywriter? His successor? He
did not say, and I did not ask him.
Resor worked his way through Yale tutoring other students and
selling books, but he also had time to win the James Gordon Bennett
prize for economics. He retained a life-long admiration for
professors and hired at least three to work at J. Walter Thompson –
a psychologist, an economist and a historian. He used to say that his
agency was the ‘university’ of advertising.
Unlike Lasker, he was a fervent believer in research. The
economist Arno Johnson was one of his researchers, and another
was Virgil Reed, a former Director of the Census. He set up a panel
of 5,000 consumers and had them report once a month on
everything they purchased. He had a test kitchen in the agency, to
invent new recipes for his clients, and he started experiments on
television long before it was available for advertising. He also
shared my interest in factor-analysis and had a team studying
techniques which work and techniques which don’t work.
A man of rigid principles, he threw away an opportunity to get
the huge Camel account because he would not show speculative
advertisements. He never took liquor accounts or patent medicines.
Perhaps his most valuable innovation was to be the ɹrst to
employ women as copywriters, starting with his wife. They were
housed in a separate department and had to wear hats in the oɽce.
Like all the giants, Resor worked long hours. I used to see him on
the train that left Grand Central Station shortly before midnight. He
was usually reading the Wall Street prices in the evening paper, 20
years before I had any reason to do so.
A few years after I hung out my shingle, I lost my biggest account
to J. Walter Thompson, and telephoned Resor to congratulate him.

‘David’, he said, ‘you are a gentleman and a scholar but you are
trying to break into the ranks of the big agencies, and that is no
longer possible. The investment is too big. I suggest you give up and
join J. Walter Thompson.’
I replied, ‘Mr. Resor, I would love to join you, but I couldn’t ɹre a
hundred men and women.’
‘Oh,’ he said, ‘times are good. They wouldn’t have any diɽculty
ɹnding other jobs.’
Two years later he repeated the invitation, this time oʃering to
buy my whole agency, like buying a library to get one book. That
was the day I met his wife. He had hired her to write copy on the
Cincinnati agency where he worked before joining Thompson, and
she had become one of the best copywriters in the country. Their
partnership, both in business and as a couple, was formidable.
It was Helen Resor who insisted that the agency’s oɽces should
be decorated with antique furniture, each executive being allowed
to choose the period he liked the best. She was said to believe that if
their oɽces were more attractive than their homes, they would
work longer hours.2
In some ways, Helen Resor was more than Stanley. She was one of
the founders of the planned parenthood movement, and she made
use of her experience as a Trustee of the Museum of Modern Art to
form an admirable collection of pictures.

Stanley Resor, the Brahmin of the advertising business. He and his copywriter wife made J. Walter Thompson the biggest
agency in the world.
Despite the fact that he was married to a copywriter, Resor had a
tendency to regard copywriters as idiots. His agency was dominated
by its account executives, or ‘representatives’ as he called them.
Unlike the author, he believed strongly in the selling power of
celebrity testimonials. For Lux Toilet Soap he used Hollywood
movie stars, and for Ponds he used titled English women; my friend
Erskine Childers, who was later to become President of Ireland, had
the job of signing them up.
Resor was the ɹrst agency chief to start a network of oɽces
outside the United States. This he did in the twenties, at the behest
of General Motors.
He looked like Woodrow Wilson, but he was a Republican. He
lived in an unostentatious house in Connecticut, where he worked in
the garden, and had a ranch in Wyoming. None of Lasker’s
extravagance.
But Resor made one mistake. He stayed too long. By the time he
was 80, his ideas for advertising campaigns had become

anachronistic. And partners who would have made good successors
retired before he did.
RAYMOND RUBICAM 1892-1978
The day after I arrived in the United States, I called Raymond
Rubicam for an appointment, armed with an introduction from
Caroline Ruutz-Rees, the famous headmistress of Rosemary Hall.
‘State your business,’ he barked. ‘I want to pick your brains,’ I
replied.
The two best agencies in the world are the lengthened shadows of Raymond Rubicam. He was my conscience for 40 years,
teaching me that advertising has a responsibility to behave.
The following year, he and George Gallup, who was then his
Research Director, hired me to run the Audience Research Institute
at Princeton. Rubicam took great interest in our work and treated
me with uncommon kindness.
After the war I decided to try my luck in advertising, but I stood
in such awe of Young & Rubicam that I did not dare apply to them
for a job. As I thought they were the only agency where I would like
to work, I had no choice but to start my own. In one of his last

letters before he died, Rubicam wrote, ‘We knew you before you
started your agency. How come we missed you?’
By that time we had become great friends. ‘Friends’ is not the
right word. He was my patron, inspiration, counselor, critic and
conscience. I was his hero-worshipping disciple. At one stage, long
after he retired from Young & Rubicam, he oʃered to become
chairman of Ogilvy & Mather.
If all institutions are ‘the lengthened shadow of one man’, it can
be said that the two best agencies in the world today are the
lengthened shadows of Raymond Rubicam.
Next to my grandfather, whom he resembled physically and in
many other ways, Rubicam was the most outspoken man I have ever
known. He blurted out whatever was on his mind, without
considering what eʃect it might have. One day he would praise one
of my campaigns in language which made me blush, and a few
weeks later criticize another campaign with a candor which made
me wince.
The youngest of eight children in a poor family, he left school
when he was 15 and spent the next nine years bumming around the
country as a shipping clerk, bellhop, chaperone of cattle, movie
projectionist, door-to-door salesman, automobile salesman, and
newspaper reporter (at $12 a week). When he was 24 he applied for
a job as a copywriter at the now defunct F. Wallis Armstrong agency
in Philadelphia. ‘I sat in that lobby – on a bench so hard that I can
still feel it,’ he later recalled. ‘At the end of the ninth day, I
exploded  …  I wrote the boss a letter calculated to produce an
immediate interview or a couple of black eyes.’ The boss stormed
into the lobby, waving the letter, and said, ‘Those ads you wrote
didn’t amount to much, but this letter has some stuʃ in it.’
He stayed with Armstrong for three years, but did not enjoy it.
‘Armstrong said that a copywriter was a necessary evil, but an art
director was just a goddamned luxury. He lived to outfox
everybody.’ In 1919 Rubicam moved to N.W. Ayer, then the largest
agency in the country. There he wrote campaigns which have been
included in every anthology of great advertisements, including ‘The
Instrument of the Immortals’ for Steinway and ‘The Priceless

Ingredient’ for Squibb. Then, after four years with Ayer, he teamed
up with an account executive called John Orr Young to start Young
& Rubicam, on a shoe-string. Their capital was $5,000 and their ɹrst
account was a shoe-string. Today their agency is either the biggest
or second biggest in the world, with billings of about three billion
dollars a year.3
Raymond Rubicam assembled the best team of copywriters and art directors in the history of advertising – like Jack
Rosebrook, Roy Whittier, Vaughn Flannery, Henry Lent, George Gribbin, Sid Ward and Norman Robbins. Under Rubicam’s
inspiration they created advertisements which were read by more people than any other agency’s – including this ad for Life
Savers.

He was the ɹrst to make research part of the creative process, by
bringing in Dr. Gallup from Northwestern University and paying
him to measure the readership of advertisements. From this research
emerged guidelines which enabled Young & Rubicam to produce
advertisements which were read by more people than any other
agency’s. Rubicam used to say, ‘The way we sell is to get read ɹrst.’
Observing that the eʃect of his campaigns was often negated by
the marketing incompetence of his clients, he hired ɹrst-class sales
managers to teach them their business.
During the ɹrst year of Young & Rubicam, their advertisements
were notable for the excellence of their copy, but their graphics –
illustrations, layouts and typography – were as hideous as any other
agency’s. When this dawned on Rubicam, he hired Vaughn
Flannery, the best art director in America. From that day forward,
Young & Rubicam’s advertisements set a standard of taste which
was new in American advertising.
But the achievement of which Rubicam was most proud was a
larger one. In old age he told me, ‘Advertising has a responsibility to
behave properly. I proved that you can sell products without
bamboozling the American public.’ While he had no monopoly on
this virtue, he had more right than anyone to boast about it.
His deɹnition of a good advertisement was that ‘its public is not
only strongly sold by it, but both the public and the advertiser
remember it for a long time as an admirable piece of work.’
In the eternal battle for power which goes on in agencies between
the creative people and the account executives, Rubicam – himself a
copywriter – came down heavily on the side of the creative people.
He called account executives by the old-fashioned and now
pejorative word ‘contact men’ and insisted that their only function
was to get clients to approve the ads.
He taught me to resign accounts when they were spoiling the
morale of my staʃ He resigned the huge American Tobacco account
because he disliked being bullied by the notorious George
Washington Hill. His letter is before me:

‘Young & Rubicam and American Tobacco were both successful
companies for some time before our association began. I trust
both will continue to be successful companies after our
association ceases, which it is doing as of now.’
The early success of Young & Rubicam was due more than anything
else to the fact that General Foods was their biggest client. One day
Rubicam told the head of General Foods that his account had grown
too big for any one agency; he should hire a second and later a
third. This is how Benton & Bowles got their ɹrst major account,
and it is why General Foods came to trust every recommendation
Rubicam made to them.
At the end of World War II, when I was a Second Secretary at the
British Embassy in Washington, I suggested to the Foreign Oɽce in
London that they nominate Rubicam to head the public relations
function at the ɻedgling United Nations, only to be told that he
should ɹll out an application form!

This modest ad announced the opening of Young & Rubicam in 1923.
Oʃ duty, he was less conservative then Stanley Resor. In 1946 he
contributed an article to McCall’s deploring the dropping of atomic
bombs on Japan. He believed that a demonstration of the bomb
would have convinced the Japanese to surrender, and made the
United States the moral leader of the world.
In the early days of radio he proposed that the programs should
be paid for by the government and carry no advertising. When he
was made a member of the Advertising Hall of Fame in 1974, he
said in his acceptance speech, ‘The national obsession with
television is decreasing the literacy of the nation’s children and
making the job of the schools much tougher. It is also obsessing the
country with crime. Industry and advertising could perform a huge

public service if they could induce the television networks to cut
down the advertising and cut down the crime.’
The ad on the left, written by Raymond Rubicam in 1919, now looks old-fashioned. The ad on the right, written in 1982, has
a contemporary look. But which ad is more memorable?
Click here for hi-res image and text.
During World War II he was a special assistant to the chairman of
the
War
Manpower
Commission
in
Washington,
but
the
environment did not ɹt him.
Like all the other giants, Rubicam was a perfectionist and had a
habit of vetoing advertisements when the account executive was on
his way to present them to the client. He used to say, ‘The client
remembers an outstanding job years after he has forgotten that it
was two months late.’ He worked non-stop – until he found
happiness in his second marriage. He then retired, aged 52, and
went to live in Arizona, where he speculated in real estate and
served as consultant to Campbell Soup Company, a role in which I
was to succeed him.
He had been at his agency for only 21 years, compared with
Stanley Resor’s 45 years at J. Walter Thompson and Albert Lasker’s

40 years at Lord & Thomas.
The present President of Young & Rubicam has said that ‘Rubicam
played a marvelous dirty trick on the rest of us – he didn’t leave
behind a list of rules.’
He did, however, leave behind an aphorism which appeals to the
present generation at Young & Rubicam: resist the usual. Or, as his
copy chief Roy Whittier put it, ‘In advertising, the beginning of
greatness is to be diʃerent, and the beginning of failure is to be the
same.’ A point of view which was shared by Bill Bernbach.
I knew Rubicam for 40 years, longer than any of my other giants,
and loved him more.

Another elegant and eʃective ad from the winning Rubicam team.
Click here for hi-res image.
LEO BURNETT 1891-1971
The ɹrst thing that struck you about Leo Burnett was his
extraordinary appearance. Carl Hixon describes it perfectly: ‘He was
short and slope-shouldered, with a paunch. His lapels were
sprinkled with cigarette ash. A large double chin gave him a faintly
froggy aspect. When he spoke, his voice was a gruʃ rumble. But his
most memorable feature was his prominent lower lip.’

Leo Burnett personiɹed the Chicago school of advertising. ‘Isn’t making ads the most fun you ever had in your life?’

A typical Leo Burnett advertisement. Note the posterized layout.
After working his way through college writing show cards for a
department store, Leo landed a job as a reporter on the Peoria
Journal. Later, he joined the advertising department of Cadillac,
from which he went to an agency in Indianapolis. After ten years
there, he joined Erwin Wasey as copy chief, and in 1935 set up his
own agency in Chicago. But it wasn’t until he was 60 that Leo hit
his stride. It was as if he suddenly turned on his after-burners. By
the time he died, 20 years later, his agency had become the biggest
in the world outside New York.

He was the leader of the ‘Chicago school’ of advertising – which
was his invention. Here is how he told the story:
‘In the Michigan town where I was raised, you could hear the
corn growing on hot nights. I snuck up on Chicago slowly, by
way of outlying cities. When I ɹnally got here I was 40 years
old and conɹrmed in my colloquial ways.
‘People in my home town thought of Chicago as a kind of Rome
to which all roads led – beckoning, majestic, maybe a touch or
two wicked.
‘Unlike New York, however, which was a mythical place,
Chicago was real. Everyone had an Uncle Charlie or Aunt Mabel
living here, in Glen Ellyn or somewhere. Whether people
approved of Chicago or not, it was “family”, rather like a son
who had gone oʃ and made good in an impressive but
controversial way. So my little town had a proprietary feeling
about Chicago, and when we rubes came ɻocking in from all
quarters of the cornbelt, we recognized each other and knew we
were home.
‘I guess what I’m getting at is that Chicago is the Midwest – the
heart, soul, brains and bowels of it. Its ad-making ranks are
ɹlled with folks whose heads are stocked with prairie-town
views and values.
‘Now I don’t intend to argue that Chicago is in any way a
worthier city than, say, New York. But I am suggesting that our
sod-busting delivery, our loose-limbed stand and our wide-eyed
perspective make it easier for us to create ads that talk turkey
to the majority of Americans – that’s all.
‘I like to think that we Chicago ad-makers are all working stiʃs.
I like to imagine that Chicago copywriters spit on their hands
before picking up the big, black pencils. I like to think that the
language of our ads has been ventilated in the fresh Chicago
breezes and rinsed in the clear waters of Lake Michigan.

‘It seems to me that Chicago Advertising draws up a lot of
nourishment from the richness of American folklore, restores it,
and perpetuates it in a keen and lively sense.
‘I like to think that hereabouts a man can write ain’t into his
copy when ain’t is precisely what he means. Remember Will
Rogers counseled: “A lot of people who don’t say ain’t…ain’t
eatin’!” ’
The greatest compliment Leo ever paid me was to tell the Chicago
Tribune that there was one agency in New York which belonged to
the Chicago school – Ogilvy & Mather. He suggested we merge.
His attitude to the creative process can be summed up in three
things he said:
1 ‘There is an inherent drama in every product. Our No. 1 job is
to dig for it and capitalize on it.’
2 ‘When you reach for the stars, you may not quite get one, but
you won’t come up with a handful of mud either.’
3 ‘Steep yourself in your subject, work like hell, and love, honor
and obey your hunches.’
He set high standards for his copywriters and art directors, and
applied them through his Creative Review Committee. He once
likened the ordeal of appearing before it to being ‘nibbled to death
by ducks’. At the end of his life he wrote: ‘Looking back over our
greatest achievements, I recall that few of them were generated in
an atmosphere of sweetness, light and enthusiasm, but rather one of
dynamic tension, complicated by oʃ-stage muttering.’
He did not admire originality for its own sake, and used to quote
an old boss of his: ‘If you insist on being diʃerent just for the sake of
being diʃerent, you can always come down in the morning with a
sock in your mouth.’
Instead of assigning a project to one creative group, he had a
habit of putting several groups in competition. It was enough, he
once said, ‘to send strong men staggering to buy a goat farm.’

Without any doubt, Leo’s greatest monument is his campaign for
Marlboro. It made an obscure brand the biggest-selling cigarette in
the world. And it is still running, 25 years after he created it.
Print was always the medium which interested him most. Never
having worked in direct response, he did not put much stock in long
copy. Most of his ads looked like miniature posters.
He liked earthy, vernacular phrases, and kept a folder on his desk
labeled Corny Language. ‘I do not mean maxims, gags or slang in its
ordinary sense, but words, phrases and analogies which convey a
feeling of sod-buster honesty and drive home a point. I sometimes
run across these phrases in a newspaper story or in a chance
conversation. I chuck them into the folder and one of them might
show up in an ad years later.’
When he saw somebody on his staʃ using the product of a
competitor, he issued this memo:
‘As you well know, your income and mine are derived 100 per
cent from the sale of the products of our clients.
‘During the 36 years I have been in the agency business I have
always been naïvely guided by the principle that if we do not
believe in the products we advertise strongly enough to use
them ourselves, we are not completely honest with ourselves in
advertising them to others.
‘I recognize the unconscious spirit of rebellious independence
that exists in all of us, and the compulsion you or I may have to
demonstrate that we wear no man’s yoke. I have always felt,
however, that there are better and more rewarding ways of
doing this than in conspicuously avoiding or ɻouting the
products of the people who pay our way.
‘I guess my feeling is pretty well summed up in the remarks of
the vice president of a competitive agency. When asked why he
was smoking a not-too-popular brand of cigarette which his
company advertised, he replied: “In my book there is no taste
or aroma quite like that of bread and butter.” ’

Leo deplored the tendency of mega-agencies to put their own
aggrandizement ahead of service to their clients. Not long before he
died, he told his staʃ:
‘Somewhere along the line, after I’m ɹnally oʃ the premises,
you may want to take my name oʃ the premises, too.
‘But let me tell you when I might demand that you take my
name oʃ the door. That will be the day when you spend more
time trying to make money and less time making advertising.
‘When your main interest becomes a matter of size just to be
big, rather than good, hard, wonderful work.’
I wish I had written that.
He had two sons, a geologist and an architect, and one daughter,
a poet. He lived on a farm outside Chicago, but worked 364 days a
year, except for occasional visits to the Arlington race-track, where
he had a box. He had a passion for wild ɻowers, trees – and
charades.
CLAUDE C. HOPKINS 1867-1932
By exorcizing the pseudo-literary pretentions endemic in British
copywriters of my vintage, and concentrating my thoughts on the
obligation of advertising to sell, Claude Hopkins’ book, Scientiɹc
Advertising, changed the course of my life.
At 17 Hopkins was a lay preacher, but he rebeled against his
family’s hardshell Baptist brand of religion, and got a job as a
bookkeeper. Not long afterwards, he joined the Bissell Carpet
Sweeper Company, and invented selling strategies which gave
Bissell a virtual monopoly. Then to Swift as Advertising Manager,
followed by Dr. Shoop’s patent medicine company, where he
persuaded his agency to let him write the copy not only for Dr.
Shoop’s but for Montgomery Ward and Schlitz Beer as well.
When he was 41, he was hired by Albert Lasker to write copy for
Lord & Thomas. Lasker paid him $185,000 a year – equivalent to

$2,000,000 in today’s money. He stayed at Lord & Thomas for 18
years.
Hopkins was a prodigiously hard worker, seldom leaving his
oɽce before the early hours of the morning. Sunday was his favorite
day, because he could work without interruption.
From his typewriter came campaigns which made many products
famous, including Pepsodent, Palmolive and six diʃerent cars. He
invented ways to force distribution for new products. He invented
test marketing. He invented sampling by coupon. He invented copy
research.
Nobody should be allowed to have anything to do with advertising until he has read this book seven times. It changed the
course of my life.

He held that nobody with a college education should be allowed
to write copy for the mass market. I know what he meant.
He was an uncompromising practitioner of the experimental
method, forever testing new ideas in search of better results – even
if, as Politz has pointed out, he did not always indicate ‘the
boundaries between direct ɹndings from experimentation and
conclusions arrived at by general observation and reasoning.’
A few of his conclusions have been disproved by later research.
We now know, for example, that he was wrong when he said, ‘In
every ad consider only new customers. People using your product
are not going to read your ads.’ The fact is that users of a product
read its advertisements more than non-users.
He was a shy, mousy little man and spoke with a strong lisp. His
nickname was Thee-Thee, that being the way he pronounced his
initials C.C. But he was a good raconteur and after-dinner speaker.
He always wore a fuchsia in his buttonhole, chewed licorice root,
and spat profusely on the person he was talking to.
Rich as he became, Hopkins was notoriously stingy, and never
paid more than $6 for a pair of shoes. But his second wife persuaded
him to buy an ocean-going yacht, to employ an army of gardeners
on their estate, and to buy Louis XVI furniture. She ɹlled their house
with an endless procession of guests, and played Scarlatti to Hopkins
for hours at a time.
He thought illustrations were a waste of space. Perhaps they were
less important 60 years ago, when magazines and newspapers were
thinner, and competition for the reader’s attention less severe. But
few experienced practitioners of advertising would now argue with
these dicta:
‘Almost any question can be answered, cheaply, quickly and
ɹnally, by a test campaign. And that’s the way to answer them
– not by arguments around the table.’
‘Ad writers forget they are salesmen and try to be performers.
Instead of sales, they seek applause.’

‘Whenever possible we introduce a personality into our ads. By
making a man famous we make his product famous.’
‘It it not uncommon for a change in headlines to multiply
returns from ɹve to ten times over.’
‘Brief ads are never keyed. Every traced ad tells a complete
story.’
Nowadays Hopkins is remembered, if at all, as an uncompromising
advocate of ‘hard sell’. Yet he perceived the importance of brand
images – a generation before that term came into use. ‘Try to give
each advertiser a becoming style. To create the right individuality is
a supreme accomplishment.’
Raymond Rubicam abhorred Hopkins, believing that he had
devoted his life to cheating the public. He once told me, ‘You are
Claude Hopkins with a college education.’ A backhanded
compliment if ever I heard one.
Five years before he died Hopkins wrote, ‘My chief work in
advertising has been meeting emergencies. Nobody ever called me
in when the skies were bright and the seas were calm. Nearly every
client quit me when he got into smooth waters.’ Sick of rescuing
clients from the jaws of bankruptcy and making them richer than
himself, he resigned from Lord & Thomas and went into business for
himself Too late.
Hopkins was interested in nothing but advertising. There is
macabre pathos in the last sentence of his autobiography: ‘The
happiest are those who live closest to nature, an essential to
advertising success.’
BILL BERNBACH 1911-1982
Bill Bernbach and I started our agencies in the same year, and we
both made our reputations as copywriters.
He was born 19 years after the youngest of my ɹve other giants.
After graduating from New York University with a degree in English
Literature, he got a job in the mailroom of Schenley and became the

protégé of Grover Whalen, who was the chairman. When Whalen
left to run the New York’s World Fair, he took Bill with him as his
speech writer. After the Fair ended, Bill joined the Weintraub
agency, where he worked with Paul Rand, a distinguished art
director who was a fugitive from the Bauhaus.
During World War II, he spent two years in the Army, and then
went to the Grey agency, where he quickly became creative head.
Four years later, with Ned Doyle and Max Dane, he started his own
agency, with an investment of $1,200. While his name appeared last
on the letterhead, there was never any doubt whose agency it was.
Today, Doyle Dane Bernbach is the tenth biggest in the world, with
billings of more than a billion dollars.
Bill always created an atmosphere in which talented people
blossomed. A woman who wrote deadly dull copy for me wrote
brilliant copy for Bill. He was an irresistible salesman of his agency’s
work, and terrifyingly obstinate. When I was chairman of the United
Negro College Fund, he volunteered to make a television
commercial for purposes of fund-raising. I dared to warn him that
his storyboard, while a work of art, was not calculated to produce
cash contributions. Bill replied, ‘David, you don’t have to worry.
There are plenty of other agencies that would be happy to do the
job for you.’ Bill’s commercial ran as presented.
I am told that he used to carry a card which bore the self-
admonition Maybe he’s right. I once actually heard him admit that a
client was right. This precedent-shattering event happened at lunch
in the White House, when one of President Johnson’s assistants
criticized an anti-Goldwater commercial that Bill had put on the air
the previous night.

Bill Bernbach – ‘a gentleman with brains.’ He worshipped at the altar of originality and was the hero of the creative
fraternity.
He had a genius for integrating copy with illustration, and never
made my mistake of subordinating copywriters to art directors.
He held, as I do, that the quality of the idea and the excellence of
its execution was the alpha and omega of successful advertising.
He worshipped at the altar of originality, and was never tired of
denouncing research as the enemy of creativity. This may have
irritated some of his clients, but it made him the hero of the creative
fraternity.
Of all his wonderful campaigns, those I most admire are
Volkswagen and Avis. He was less successful with package-goods
clients who tried to impose orthodox disciplines. I have often

wondered if his output would have been less elegant if, like me, he
had started as a door-to-door salesman.
He spoke in a quiet voice and looked modest. But he wasn’t. The
last time I saw him, he and Rosser Reeves were my guests at lunch.
Bill lectured Rosser and me as if we were trainees in his agency.
When some of his stodgier competitors started raiding his agency in
search of swingers, Bill told me, ‘They don’t realize that these
people will be helpless without my guiding hand.’ And guide them
he did, always insisting that their advertising, however clever and
original, should make the product the hero.
He was a philosopher. He lived without ostentation, and
organized his time with a self-discipline that is rare among heads of
agencies. He once told me that he never stayed in the oɽce after
ɹve, never took work home, and never worked at weekends. ‘You
see, David, I love my family.’
Shortly before he died, Bill was asked what changes he expected
in advertising in the eighties. He replied, ‘Human nature hasn’t
changed for a billion years. It won’t even vary in the next billion
years. Only the superɹcial things have changed. It is fashionable to
talk about changing man. A communicator must be concerned with
unchanging man – what compulsions drive him, what instincts
dominate his every action, even though his language too often
camouɻages what really motivates him. For if you know these things
about a man, you can touch him at the core of his being. One thing
is unchangingly sure. The creative man with an insight into human
nature, with the artistry to touch and move people, will succeed.
Without them he will fail.’
A gentleman with brains.
If I had to choose ɹve more giants to complete my All-Time All-
American team, they would be three copywriters – James Webb
Young of J. Walter Thompson, George Cecil of N. W. Ayer, and Jack
Rosebrook of Young & Rubicam; one art director – Vaughn Flannery

of Young & Rubicam; and one new business wizard – Ben Duʃy of
BBDO.
And who would I choose from the living stars? Their names are
locked in my safe.
1Taken at the Flood (Harper, 1960)
2This cost JWT the chance to get the Listerine account. Jerry Lambert who owned Listerine
told me, ‘I would prefer an agency which spends its commissions on service rather than
furniture.’
3If you lump together the three networks which belong to Interpublic, they come out
bigger than Young & Rubicam and its subsidiaries.

