# 8. How to make TV commercials that sell

Paginas: 162-186

E
8
How to make TV commercials
that sell
veryone who writes about television commercials faces the
same insoluble problem: it is impossible to show them on the pages
of a book. All I can do is reproduce some storyboards which
illustrate my points, and pray that you can decipher them.
In my chapter on print advertising, I have relied not only on
research, but also on long experience. My experience in television
has been more limited. True, I once won an award at the Cannes
Festival, but it wasn’t a good commercial. So most of this chapter
will have to rely on research, and the judgments I have formed
while looking at thousands of other people’s commercials.

Testimonials by celebrities are below average in their ability to change brand preference, but American Express has been
running commercials like this one since 1975 — with outstanding success. They have a special element of mystery: ‘Do you
know me?’

My most valuable source of information is the factor analyses I
commission at regular intervals from Mapes & Ross. They measure
changes in brand preference. People who register a change in brand
preference after seeing a commercial subsequently buy the product
three times more than people who don’t.
Research organizations also measure the recall of commercials,
and this method ɹnds favor with many advertisers. But some kinds
of television commercials which get high recall scores get low scores
on changing brand preference, and there appears to be no
correlation between recall and purchasing. I prefer to rely on
changes in brand preference.
I will start by telling you about ten kinds of commercial which are
found to be above average in their ability to change people’s brand

preference, and three kinds which are below average.
Above average
1 Humor. Conventional wisdom has always held that people buy
products because they believe them to be nutritious, or labor-saving,
or good value for money – not because the manufacturer tells jokes
on television. Claude Hopkins, the father of modern advertising,
thundered, ‘People don’t buy from clowns’
I think this was true in Hopkins’ day, and I have reason to believe
that it remained true until recently, but the latest wave of factor-
analysis reveals that humor can now sell. This came as a great relief
to me; I had always hated myself for rejecting the funny
commercials submitted for my approval.

My favorite from the brilliant series of nostalgic commercials for Hovis bread by the British agency Collett Dickenson Pearce.


This wrinkled old peasant was cast as the heroine in French commercials for washing machines. She came to be recognized by
three out of four people in France, and sales of the product jumped from fourth place to second.
But I must warn you that very, very few writers can write funny
commercials which are funny. Unless you are one of the few, don’t
try.
2 Slice of life. In these commercials one actor argues with another
about the merits of a product, in a setting which roughly
approximates real life. In the end, the doubter is converted – your
toothpaste really does give children healthier teeth.
These playlets have been successful in case after case. Copywriters
detest them because most of them are so corny – and because they
have been in such wide use for such a long time. But some agencies
have succeeded in producing slices which are not only eʃective at
the cash register, but realistic and charming.
3 Testimonials. The most eʃective testimonial commercials are those
which show loyal users of your product testifying to its virtues –
when they don’t know they are being ɹlmed. The interviewer
pretends to ɹnd fault with the product and the loyal user rises to its
defense with far more conviction than if you simply asked him what
he thought of it. Here is an example:

The scene is the forecourt of a Shell station. We see an actor
disguised as the man on the pump.
Announcer: ‘This man is an imposter. He’s not really a Shell
dealer. He’s going to see if he can talk our customers out of
buying Super Shell. Let’s watch through this hidden camera.’
Shell dealer: ‘I’ll bet you get bad mileage with Super Shell.’
Mrs. Longo, a customer: ‘It’s good. I’ll tell you where a penny
saved is a penny earned.’
Shell dealer: ‘Aw, come on. What do you know about gasoline?’
Mrs. Longo: ‘You see this little dog I have back here? I bought
this little dog because it saves money on food. Now I can save
on Super Shell.’
Shell dealer: ‘Bunk! B-U-N-K.’
Mrs. Longo: ‘You are absolutely wrong. That is the best gasoline.
Why, if I were them, I would ɹre you’.
Announcer: ‘We’ll give him another chance because he got you
to say nice things about Super Shell.’
When you pick loyal users to testify, avoid those who would give
such polished performances that viewers would think they were
professional actors. The more amateurish the performance, the more
credible.
A French agency picked an 80-year-old laundress as the heroine in
a campaign for washing machines. This keg-shaped, wrinkled old
woman came to be recognized by three out of four people in France,
and sales of the washing machine went from fourth place to second.

This French commercial demonstrates how well Super Glue-3 works by applying it to the announcer’s shoes and hanging him
upside down from the ceiling. Super Glue-3 became the brand-leader and the commercial won First Prize at the Cannes
Festival.
The use of unusual characters increases the power of commercials
to change brand preference by a remarkably high percentage.

4 Demonstrations which show how well your product performs are
above average in their ability to persuade.
Demonstrations don’t have to be dull. To demonstrate how strong
paper-board can be, International Paper spanned a canyon with a
bridge made of paper-board – and then drove a heavy truck over it.
The Paris oɽce of Ogilvy & Mather demonstrated the strength of
a client’s glue by applying it to the soles of the announcer’s shoes
and hanging him upside down from the ceiling – from which
position he delivered his sales pitch.

A successful example of using a character to reinforce the authenticity of your product.

If you use a demonstration to compare your product with your
competitor’s, think twice before identifying the competitor by name.
It is illegal in Germany, but the US Government encourages it as
providing information which will help the consumer make an
informed choice. Studies conducted by Ogilvy & Mather found that
commercials which name competing brands are less believable and
more confusing than commercials which don’t. There is a tendency
for viewers to come away with the impression that the brand which
you disparage is the hero of your commercial.
5 Problem solution. This technique is an old as television. You show
the viewer a problem with which he or she is familiar, and then
show how your product can solve it.

One of the best problem-solution commercials I have seen was
made in Madras for Train matches. It starts by showing a man
unable to strike ‘ordinary’ matches in the muggy climate of southern
India. He goes mad with impatience. Then his cool, beautiful wife
comes to the rescue with a box of Train matches which strike
immediately.
6 Talking heads. This is the derisive name given to commercials
which consist of a pitchman extolling the virtues of a product.
Agency people ɹnd them non-creative, and are sick of them, but
several advertisers still use them because they are above average in
changing brand preference.
Talking heads are particularly appropriate for announcing new
products. More than a hundred new brands of cigarette have been
introduced in Germany in recent years, and the only one which
succeeded was launched by a talking head. Perhaps the most
persuasive talking head of all time is John Houseman saying, ‘Smith
Barney make money the old-fashioned way. They earn it.’
As a former door-to-door salesman, I shall go to my grave
believing that, given two minutes on television, I could sell any
product on the face of the earth. Any oʃers?
7 Characters. In some commercials, a ‘character’ is used to sell your
product over a period of years. The character becomes the living
symbol of the product – like Titus Moody, the crusty old New
England baker who has been extolling the quality of Pepperidge
Farm bread for 26 years, or Cora, who sold Maxwell House coʃee
for seven years.
Provided they are relevant to your product, characters are above
average in their ability to change brand-preference.
8 Reason why. Commercials which give the viewer a rational reason
why they should buy your product are slightly above average. When
Maxim Instant Coʃee was launched, the commercials said Maxim
was superior because it was freeze-dried. Nine out of ten advertising
people will tell you that consumers don’t give a hoot about how

products are made. They may be right, but the process of freeze-
drying was suɽciently new and interesting to persuade many
viewers to try the coʃee.
9 News. Commercials which contain news are above average. But
even when they have news to tell, which is all too rare, some
copywriters underplay it, or leave it out altogether. They should be
boiled in oil. Products, like human beings, attract most attention
when they are ɹrst born.
For an old product, you can create news by advertising a new way
to use it, like using baking soda to keep refrigerators smelling sweet.
10 Emotion. Researchers have not yet found a way to quantify the
eʃectiveness of emotion, but I have come to believe that
commercials with a large content of nostalgia, charm and even
sentimentality can be enormously eʃective. The commercials for
Hovis bread in Great Britain and Blitz-Weinhard beer in Oregon
strike me as among the most persuasive I have seen. (See this page,
this page.)
Emotion can be just as eʃective as any rational appeal,
particularly when there is nothing unique to say about your
product. ‘But,’ says my partner Hal Riney, ‘here is where things get
sticky. Most clients – and I’m afraid most agency people – think the
rational appeals for their products are much more important than
the consumer thinks they are. If your advertising is going to be
successful, if it is going to stand out from the clutter, you must be
objective about the beneɹts of your product. What exactly are the
“beneɹts” of candy bars, cigarettes, soda pop and beer?’
I hasten to add that consumers also need a rational excuse to
justify their emotional decisions. So always include one. Above all,
don’t attempt emotion unless you can deliver it.
Below average
1 Testimonials by celebrities. These are below average in their ability
to change brand preference. Viewers guess that the celebrity has

been bought, and they are right. To get Farrah Fawcett for three
years, Fabergé is reported to have paid $2,000,000. Bob Hope,
Gregory Peck, Candice Bergen and Dean Martin charge about
$1,000,000 each. The spokesman everyone wants is Walter
Cronkite, but he isn’t available at any price. However, for a beggarly
$10,000 you can get Ronald Biggs who escaped from jail after being
convicted for his part in England’s Great Train Robbery. He lives in
Brazil.
Viewers have a way of remembering the celebrity while forgetting
the product. I did not know this when I paid Eleanor Roosevelt
$35,000 to make a commercial for margarine. She reported that her
mail was equally divided. ‘One half was sad because I had damaged
my reputation. The other half was happy because I had damaged my
reputation.’ Not one of my proudest memories.
I paid Mrs. Roosevelt $35,000 to make a commercial for margarine. Here she is telling viewers, ‘The new Good Luck
margarine really tastes delicious’. In those days I did not know that it is a mistake to use celebrities. They are remembered but
the product is forgotten.

2 Cartoons can sell things to children, but they are below average in
selling to grown-ups. They don’t hold the viewer as well as live
action, and they are less persuasive.
Two commercials were made for a fabric-softener. One used live
action, the other used cartoons. The cartoon commercial had no
eʃect on the downward trend in sales. The live-action commercial
reversed it.
The funniest commercial I have ever seen, by Doyle Dane Bernbach for Volkswagen. I used to reject funny commercials on
the grounds that people don’t buy from clowns. Now research shows that humor sells as eɽciently as other techniques.
Click here for hi-res image and text.
3 Musical vignettes, with a parade of ɻeeting impressions, were once
fashionable, but are on their way out. Entertaining, perhaps, but
impotent if you want to sell.

Sixteen tips
1 Brand identiɹcation. Research has demonstrated that a shocking
percentage of viewers remember your commercial, but forget the
name of your product. All too often they attribute your commercial
to a competing brand.
Many copywriters think it crass to belabor the name of the
product. However, for the beneɹt of those who are more interested
in selling than entertaining, here are two ways to register your
brand name:
Use the name within the ɹrst ten seconds. I have seen a
brilliant commercial which repeated the brand name twenty
times in 340 seconds, without irritating anyone.
Play games with the name. Spell it. Veterans will remember
Alex Templeton, the blind pianist, spelling out the name
C.R.E.S.T.A. B.L.A.N.C.A. to the accompaniment of pizzicato
strings.
When you advertise a new product, you have to teach people its
name on television.
2 Show the package. Commercials which end by showing the package
are more eʃective in changing brand preference than commercials
which don’t.
3 Food in motion. In commercials for food, the more appetizing you
make it look, the more you sell. It has been found that food in motion
looks particularly appetizing. Show chocolate sauce in the act of
being poured over your ice cream, or syrup over your pancakes.
4 Close-ups. It is a good thing to use close-ups when your product is
the hero of your commercial. The closer you get on the candy bar,
the more you make people’s mouths water.
5 Open with the ɹre. You have only 30 seconds. If you grab attention
in the ɹrst frame with a visual surprise, you stand a better chance of
holding the viewer.

People screen out a lot of commercials because they open with
something dull. You know that great things are about to happen, but
the viewer doesn’t. She will never know; she has gone to the
bathroom.
When you advertise ɹre-extinguishers, open with the ɹre.
6 When you have nothing to say, sing it. There have been some
successful commercials which sang the sales pitch, but jingles are
below average in changing brand preference.
Never use a jingle without trying it on people who have not read
your script. If they cannot decipher the words, don’t put your jingle
on the air.
If you went into a store and asked a salesman to show you a
refrigerator, how would you react if he started singing at you? Yet
some clients feel short-changed if you don’t give them a jingle.
Many people use music as background – emotional shorthand.
Research shows that this is neither a positive nor a negative factor.
It does no harm and it does no measurable good. Do great preachers
allow organists to play background music under their sermons? Do
advertising agencies play background music under their pitch to
prospective clients?
7 Sound eʃects. While music does not add to the selling power of
commercials, sound eʃects – such as sausages sizzling in a frying-pan
– can make a positive diʃerence.
A commercial for Maxwell House was constructed around the
sound of coʃee percolating. It worked well enough to run for ɹve
years.
8 Voice-over or on-camera? Research shows that it is more diɽcult to
hold your audience if you use voice-over. It is better to have the
actors talk on camera.
A manufacturer made two commercials, identical in every respect
except that one used voice-over and the other used on-camera voice.
When he tested them, the voice-on-camera version sold more of his
product.

9 Supers. It pays to reinforce your promise by setting it in type and
superimposing it over the video, while your soundtrack speaks the
words.
But make sure that the words in your supers are exactly the same
as your spoken words. Any divergence confuses the viewer.
Many people in agencies resist the use of supers. If you tell them
that they increase sales, as they do, the stupid buggers turn a deaf
ear.
10 Avoid visual banality. If you want the viewer to pay attention to
your commercial, show her something she has never seen before. You
won’t have much success if you show her sunsets and happy families
at the dinner table.
The average American family has the television turned on for six
hours a day, and is exposed to 30,000 commercials a year. Most of
them slide oʃ the memory like water oʃ a duck’s back. For this
reason you should give your commercials a touch of singularity, a
visual burr that will stick in the viewer’s mind. One such burr was
the herd of bulls thundering towards the camera, with the
superimposed title: ‘Merrill Lynch is bullish on America.’
11 Changes of scene. Hal Riney uses a great many scenes without
confusing people, but I can’t, and I bet you can’t either. On the
average, commercials with a plethora of short scenes are below
average in changing brand preference.
12 Mnemonics. This unpronounceable word is used to describe a
visual device repeated over a long period. It can increase brand
identiɹcation, and remind people of your promise. Example: the car
driving through the paper barrier in Shell commercials.
13 Show the product in use. It pays to show the product being used,
and, if possible, the end-result of using it. Show how your diapers
(nappies) keep the baby dry. In a commercial for motor oil, show
how the pistons look after 50,000 miles.

14 Everything is possible on TV. The technicians can produce
anything you want. The only limit is your imagination.
15 Miscomprehension. In 1979 Professor Jacoby of Purdue University
studied
the
‘miscomprehension’
of
25
typical
television
commercials. He found that all of them were miscomprehended,
some by as many as 40 per cent of viewers, none by fewer than 19
per cent.
If you want to avoid your television commercials being
misunderstood, you had better make them crystal clear. I cannot
understand more than half the commercials I see.
16 The great scandal. Television programs cost about $4 a second to
produce, but commercials cost $2,000 a second. Which is $60,000
for a 30-second commercial.
This obscene extravagance is largely the fault of the agencies.
Says Hooper White, ‘Production dollars are typed into the
commercial by the copywriter and drawn into the commercial by
the art director.’ Miner Raymond of Procter & Gamble tells the story
of an art director who objected to a table on the set. The client
pointed out that it was covered by a cloth and thus invisible. ‘But I
would know what’s under the cloth’ said the art director, ‘and it just
wouldn’t be right.’ So another table was found and the delay cost
the client $5,000.1
The easiest way to reduce the cost of a commercial is to cut actors
out of the storyboard. Every actor you cut will save you between
$350 and $ 10,000, depending on how long you run the
commercial.
Copywriters specify that a commercial should be shot in Bali
When it could equally well be shot in a studio for half the price.
They insert expensive animation into live-action commercials. They
insist that original music be composed for background purposes, as
if there were nothing suitable in the whole repertoire of existing
music. Worst of all, they use expensive celebrities when an unknown
actor would sell more of the product.

I have no research to prove it, but I suspect that there is a
negative correlation between the money spent on producing
commercials and their power to sell products. My partner Al Eicoʃ
was asked by a client to remake a $15,000 commercial for
$100,000. Sales went down.
Radio – the Cinderella medium
Once upon a time, I spent six months studying radio at the feet of
John Royal, the pioneering head of programming at NBC. In those
days every family in America tuned in to Jack Benny, Edgar Bergen
and Charlie McCarthy, Fred Allen, Amos and Andy, Burns and Allen.
Some of us also listened to Roy Larsen’s marvellous March of Time,
and Toscanini conducting the NBC Symphony Orchestra.
All this was swept away by television.
For most people radio has become no more than a security
blanket, a reassuring noise in the background.
Radio has become the Cinderella of advertising media,
representing only 6 per cent of total advertising in the United States.
There is no research to measure the eɽcacy of the commercials, so
nobody knows what works. A pilot study I commissioned suggests
four positive factors:
1 Identify your brand early in the commercial.
2 Identify it often.
3 Promise the listener a beneɹt early in the commercial.
4 Repeat it often.
Ninety commercials out of a hundred do none of these things. In
my opinion – and it is nothing more than that – the ɹrst thing your
radio commercial has to do is to get people to listen. Surprise them.
Arouse their curiosity. Wake them up. Once they are awake, talk to
them as one human being to another. Involve them. Charm them.
Make them laugh. Here is the script of a radio commercial in a

series which increased the sale of Red, White and Blue Beer by 60
per cent:

This beer commercial, written by my partner Hal Riney, is the best example I know of the use of emotion in advertising.

ANNOUNCER: And now, another inɻation-ɹghting message
from Mr Harmon R. Whittle.
WHITTLE: One of the biggest strains on our budget is the
foreign aid program. Each year, we send billions of dollars
worth of planes, computers, tractors and things to foreign
countries … Then we pay technical advisers to train them how
to use it all. This is expensive.
A more responsive form of foreign aid would be to send them
beer. American-made Red, White and Blue beer.
Red, White and Blue is less expensive than planes or computers.
So we’d save a bundle, right oʃ. It costs less than other
premium-quality beer, so we’d save on that. And Red, White
and Blue is easier to teach people to use than a computer. So
we’d save on technical advisers, too.
And if there’s any doubt whether our international popularity
would increase, ask yourself this: if you lived in one of those
hot, dusty countries, what would you rather have? A computer,
or an ice-cold, Red, White and Blue? It’s an honest beer. At an
honest price.
ANNOUNCER: Mr Whittle’s comments do not necessarily reɻect
the views of this station. They do however, reɻect the views of
the RWB Brewing Company, Milwaukee.

Because radio is a high-frequency medium, people quickly get tired
of hearing the same commercial. So make several. Compared with
television, radio commercials cost almost nothing to produce.
In some developing countries radio still reaches more people than
television. Yet even there nobody really knows what kind of
commercials make the cash register ring. Isn’t it time somebody
tried to ɹnd out?
1 For more information about what goes on during the ɹlming of commercials, read
Michael Arlen’s book, Thirty Seconds, Farrah, Straus & Giroux, 1980

