# Springing the System Traps

Paginas: 181-182

Springing the System Traps
Policy Resistance
Trap: When various actors try to pull a system state toward various goals, the
result can be policy resistance. Any new policy, especially if it’s effective, just
pulls the system state farther from the goals of other actors and produces
additional resistance, with a result that no one likes, but that everyone expends
considerable effort in maintaining.
The Way Out: Let go. Bring in all the actors and use the energy formerly
expended on resistance to seek out mutually satisfactory ways for all goals to be
realized—or redefinitions of larger and more important goals that everyone can
pull toward together.
The Tragedy of the Commons
Trap: When there is a commonly shared resource, every user benefits directly
from its use, but shares the costs of its abuse with everyone else. Therefore,
there is very weak feedback from the condition of the resource to the decisions
of the resource users. The consequence is overuse of the resource, eroding it
until it becomes unavailable to anyone.
The Way Out: Educate and exhort the users, so they understand the
consequences of abusing the resource. And also restore or strengthen the
missing feedback link, either by privatizing the resource so each user feels the
direct consequences of its abuse or (since many resources cannot be privatized)
by regulating the access of all users to the resource.
Drift to Low Performance
Trap: Allowing performance standards to be influenced by past performance,
especially if there is a negative bias in perceiving past performance, sets up a
reinforcing feedback loop of eroding goals that sets a system drifting toward low
performance.
The Way Out: Keep performance standards absolute. Even better, let standards
be enhanced by the best actual performances instead of being discouraged by the
worst. Set up a drift toward high performance!
Escalation
Trap: When the state of one stock is determined by trying to surpass the state
of another stock—and vice versa—then there is a reinforcing feedback loop
carrying the system into an arms race, a wealth race, a smear campaign,
escalating loudness, escalating violence. The escalation is exponential and can
lead to extremes surprisingly quickly. If nothing is done, the spiral will be

stopped by someone’s collapse—because exponential growth cannot go on
forever.
The Way Out: The best way out of this trap is to avoid getting in it. If caught
in an escalating system, one can refuse to compete (unilaterally disarm), thereby
interrupting the reinforcing loop. Or one can negotiate a new system with
balancing loops to control the escalation.
Success to the Successful
Trap: If the winners of a competition are systematically rewarded with the
means to win again, a reinforcing feedback loop is created by which, if it is
allowed to proceed uninhibited, the winners eventually take all, while the losers
are eliminated.
The Way Out: Diversification, which allows those who are losing the
competition to get out of that game and start another one; strict limitation on the
fraction of the pie any one winner may win (antitrust laws); policies that level
the playing field, removing some of the advantage of the strongest players or
increasing the advantage of the weakest; policies that devise rewards for success
that do not bias the next round of competition.
Shifting the Burden to the Intervenor
Trap: Shifting the burden, dependence, and addiction arise when a solution to
a systemic problem reduces (or disguises) the symptoms, but does nothing to
solve the underlying problem. Whether it is a substance that dulls one’s
perception or a policy that hides the underlying trouble, the drug of choice
interferes with the actions that could solve the real problem.
If the intervention designed to correct the problem causes the self-maintaining
capacity of the original system to atrophy or erode, then a destructive
reinforcing feedback loop is set in motion. The system deteriorates; more and
more of the solution is then required. The system will become more and more
dependent on the intervention and less and less able to maintain its own desired
state.
The Way Out: Again, the best way out of this trap is to avoid getting in.
Beware of symptom-relieving or signal-denying policies or practices that don’t
really address the problem. Take the focus off short-term relief and put it on
long-term restructuring.
If you are the intervenor, work in such a way as to restore or enhance the
system’s own ability to solve its problems, then remove yourself.
If you are the one with an unsupportable dependency, build your system’s
own capabilities back up before removing the intervention. Do it right away.
The longer you wait, the harder the withdrawal process will be.

