# System Definitions: A Glossary

Paginas: 177-177


Appendix
System Definitions: A Glossary
Archetypes: Common system structures that produce characteristic patterns of
behavior.
Balancing feedback loop: A stabilizing, goal-seeking, regulating feedback
loop, also know as a “negative feedback loop” because it opposes, or
reverses, whatever direction of change is imposed on the system.
Bounded rationality: The logic that leads to decisions or actions that make
sense within one part of a system but are not reasonable within a broader
context or when seen as a part of the wider system.
Dynamic equilibrium: The condition in which the state of a stock (its level or
its size) is steady and unchanging, despite inflows and outflows. This is
possible only when all inflows equal all outflows.
Dynamics: The behavior over time of a system or any of its components.
Feedback loop: The mechanism (rule or information flow or signal) that allows
a change in a stock to affect a flow into or out of that same stock. A closed
chain of causal connections from a stock, through a set of decisions and
actions dependent on the level of the stock, and back again through a flow to
change the stock.
Flow: Material or information that enters or leaves a stock over a period of time.
Hierarchy: Systems organized in such a way as to create a larger system.
Subsystems within systems.
Limiting factor: A necessary system input that is the one limiting the activity of
the system at a particular moment.
Linear relationship: A relationship between two elements in a system that has
constant proportion between cause and effect and so can be drawn with a
straight line on a graph. The effect is additive.
Nonlinear relationship: A relationship between two elements in a system
where the cause does not produce a proportional (straight-line) effect.
Reinforcing feedback loop: An amplifying or enhancing feedback loop, also
known as a “positive feedback loop” because it reinforces the direction of
change. These are vicious cycles and virtuous circles.
Resilience: The ability of a system to recover from perturbation; the ability to
restore or repair or bounce back after a change due to an outside force.

