# Summary of Systems Principles

Paginas: 178-180

Self-organization: The ability of a system to structure itself, to create new
structure, to learn, or diversify.
Shifting dominance: The change over time of the relative strengths of
competing feedback loops.
Stock: An accumulation of material or information that has built up in a system
over time.
Suboptimization: The behavior resulting from a subsystem’s goals dominating
at the expense of the total system’s goals.
System: A set of elements or parts that is coherently organized and
interconnected in a pattern or structure that produces a characteristic set of
behaviors, often classified as its “function” or “purpose.”
Summary of Systems Principles
Systems
A system is more than the sum of its parts.
Many of the interconnections in systems operate through the
flow of information.
The least obvious part of the system, its function or purpose, is
often the most crucial determinant of the system’s behavior.
System structure is the source of system behavior. System
behavior reveals itself as a series of events over time.
Stocks, Flows, and Dynamic Equilibrium
A stock is the memory of the history of changing flows within
the system.
If the sum of inflows exceeds the sum of outflows, the stock
level will rise.
If the sum of outflows exceeds the sum of inflows, the stock
level will fall.
If the sum of outflows equals the sum of inflows, the stock level
will not change — it will be held in dynamic equilibrium.
A stock can be increased by decreasing its outflow rate as well
as by increasing its inflow rate.
Stocks act as delays or buffers or shock absorbers in systems.
Stocks allow inflows and outflows to be de-coupled and
independent.

Feedback Loops
A feedback loop is a closed chain of causal connections from a
stock, through a set of decisions or rules or physical laws or
actions that are dependent on the level of the stock, and back
again through a flow to change the stock.
Balancing feedback loops are equilibrating or goal-seeking
structures in systems and are both sources of stability and
sources of resistance to change.
Reinforcing feedback loops are self-enhancing, leading to
exponential growth or to runaway collapses over time.
The information delivered by a feedback loop—even
nonphysical feedback—can affect only future behavior; it can’t
deliver a signal fast enough to correct behavior that drove the
current feedback.
A stock-maintaining balancing feedback loop must have its goal
set appropriately to compensate for draining or inflowing
processes that affect that stock. Otherwise, the feedback process
will fall short of or exceed the target for the stock.
Systems with similar feedback structures produce similar
dynamic behaviors.
Shifting Dominance, Delays, and Oscillations
Complex behaviors of systems often arise as the relative
strengths of feedback loops shift, causing first one loop and then
another to dominate behavior.
A delay in a balancing feedback loop makes a system likely to
oscillate.
Changing the length of a delay may make a large change in the
behavior of a system.
Scenarios and Testing Models
System dynamics models explore possible futures and ask “what
if” questions.
Model utility depends not on whether its driving scenarios are
realistic (since no one can know that for sure), but on whether it
responds with a realistic pattern of behavior.
Constraints on Systems
In physical, exponentially growing systems, there must be at
least one reinforcing loop driving the growth and at least one

balancing loop constraining the growth, because no system can
grow forever in a finite environment.
Nonrenewable resources are stock-limited.
Renewable resources are flow-limited.
Resilience, Self-Organization, and Hierarchy
There are always limits to resilience.
Systems need to be managed not only for productivity or
stability, they also need to be managed for resilience.
Systems often have the property of self-organization—the
ability to structure themselves, to create new structure, to learn,
diversify, and complexify.
Hierarchical systems evolve from the bottom up. The purpose of
the upper layers of the hierarchy is to serve the purposes of the
lower layers.
Source of System Surprises
Many relationships in systems are nonlinear.
There are no separate systems. The world is a continuum. Where
to draw a boundary around a system depends on the purpose of
the discussion.
At any given time, the input that is most important to a system is
the one that is most limiting.
Any physical entity with multiple inputs and outputs is
surrounded by layers of limits.
There always will be limits to growth.
A quantity growing exponentially toward a limit reaches that
limit in a surprisingly short time.
When there are long delays in feedback loops, some sort of
foresight is essential.
The bounded rationality of each actor in a system may not lead
to decisions that further the welfare of the system as a whole.
Mindsets and Models
Everything we think we know about the world is a model.
Our models do have a strong congruence with the world.
Our models fall far short of representing the real world fully.

