# User Access: Single Versus Multitenant

Paginas: 119-119

Considerations for data architecture
As we mentioned at the start of this section, the concepts of tight versus loose
coupling stem from software development, with some of these concepts dating back
over 20 years. Though architectural practices in data are now adopting those from
software development, it’s still common to see very monolithic, tightly coupled data
architectures. Some of this is due to the nature of existing data technologies and the
way they integrate.
For example, data pipelines might consume data from many sources ingested into a
central data warehouse. The central data warehouse is inherently monolithic. A move
toward a microservices equivalent with a data warehouse is to decouple the workflow
with domain-specific data pipelines connecting to corresponding domain-specific
data warehouses. For example, the sales data pipeline connects to the sales-specific
data warehouse, and the inventory and product domains follow a similar pattern.
Rather than dogmatically preach microservices over monoliths (among other argu‐
ments), we suggest you pragmatically use loose coupling as an ideal, while recogniz‐
ing the state and limitations of the data technologies you’re using within your data
architecture. Incorporate reversible technology choices that allow for modularity and
loose coupling whenever possible.
As you can see in Figure 3-7, you separate the components of your architecture into
different layers of concern in a vertical fashion. While a multitier architecture solves
the technical challenges of decoupling shared resources, it does not address the com‐
plexity of sharing domains. Along the lines of single versus multitiered architecture,
you should also consider how you separate the domains of your data architecture. For
example, your analyst team might rely on data from sales and inventory. The sales
and inventory domains are different and should be viewed as separate.
One approach to this problem is centralization: a single team is responsible for
gathering data from all domains and reconciling it for consumption across the orga‐
nization. (This is a common approach in traditional data warehousing.) Another
approach is the data mesh. With the data mesh, each software team is responsible for
preparing its data for consumption across the rest of the organization. We’ll say more
about the data mesh later in this chapter.
Our advice: monoliths aren’t necessarily bad, and it might make sense to start with
one under certain conditions. Sometimes you need to move fast, and it’s much
simpler to start with a monolith. Just be prepared to break it into smaller pieces
eventually; don’t get too comfortable.
User Access: Single Versus Multitenant
As a data engineer, you have to make decisions about sharing systems across mul‐
tiple teams, organizations, and customers. In some sense, all cloud services are
94
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

