# Data Engineering and Data Science

Paginas: 36-37

9 These acronyms stand for California Consumer Privacy Act and General Data Protection Regulation,
respectively.
now conversant in acronyms such as CCPA and GDPR;9 as they engineer pipelines,
they concern themselves with privacy, anonymization, data garbage collection, and
compliance with regulations.
What’s old is new again. While “enterprisey” stuff like data management (including
data quality and governance) was common for large enterprises in the pre-big-data
era, it wasn’t widely adopted in smaller companies. Now that many of the challenging
problems of yesterday’s data systems are solved, neatly productized, and packaged,
technologists and entrepreneurs have shifted focus back to the “enterprisey” stuff, but
with an emphasis on decentralization and agility, which contrasts with the traditional
enterprise command-and-control approach.
We view the present as a golden age of data lifecycle management. Data engineers
managing the data engineering lifecycle have better tools and techniques than ever
before. We discuss the data engineering lifecycle and its undercurrents in greater
detail in the next chapter.
Data Engineering and Data Science
Where does data engineering fit in with data science? There’s some debate, with some
arguing data engineering is a subdiscipline of data science. We believe data engineer‐
ing is separate from data science and analytics. They complement each other, but they
are distinctly different. Data engineering sits upstream from data science (Figure 1-4),
meaning data engineers provide the inputs used by data scientists (downstream from
data engineering), who convert these inputs into something useful.
Figure 1-4. Data engineering sits upstream from data science
Consider the Data Science Hierarchy of Needs (Figure 1-5). In 2017, Monica Rogati
published this hierarchy in an article that showed where AI and machine learning
(ML) sat in proximity to more “mundane” areas such as data movement/storage,
collection, and infrastructure.
What Is Data Engineering?
|
11

Figure 1-5. The Data Science Hierarchy of Needs
Although many data scientists are eager to build and tune ML models, the reality is
an estimated 70% to 80% of their time is spent toiling in the bottom three parts of
the hierarchy—gathering data, cleaning data, processing data—and only a tiny slice
of their time on analysis and ML. Rogati argues that companies need to build a solid
data foundation (the bottom three levels of the hierarchy) before tackling areas such
as AI and ML.
Data scientists aren’t typically trained to engineer production-grade data systems, and
they end up doing this work haphazardly because they lack the support and resources
of a data engineer. In an ideal world, data scientists should spend more than 90% of
their time focused on the top layers of the pyramid: analytics, experimentation, and
ML. When data engineers focus on these bottom parts of the hierarchy, they build a
solid foundation for data scientists to succeed.
With data science driving advanced analytics and ML, data engineering straddles
the divide between getting data and getting value from data (see Figure 1-6). We
believe data engineering is of equal importance and visibility to data science, with
data engineers playing a vital role in making data science successful in production.
Figure 1-6. A data engineer gets data and provides value from the data
12
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

