# Cloud

Paginas: 149-151

Companies in competitive sectors generally don’t have the option to stand still.
Competition is fierce, and there’s always the threat of being “disrupted” by more agile
competition, often backed by a large pile of venture capital dollars. Every company
must keep its existing systems running efficiently while deciding what moves to
make next. This could involve adopting newer DevOps practices, such as containers,
Kubernetes, microservices, and continuous deployment while keeping their hardware
running on premises. It could involve a complete migration to the cloud, as discussed
next.
Cloud
The cloud flips the on-premises model on its head. Instead of purchasing hardware,
you simply rent hardware and managed services from a cloud provider (such as AWS,
Azure, or Google Cloud). These resources can often be reserved on an extremely
short-term basis; VMs spin up in less than a minute, and subsequent usage is billed
in per-second increments. This allows cloud users to dynamically scale resources that
were inconceivable with on-premises servers.
In a cloud environment, engineers can quickly launch projects and experiment
without worrying about long lead time hardware planning. They can begin running
servers as soon as their code is ready to deploy. This makes the cloud model
extremely appealing to startups that are tight on budget and time.
The early cloud era was dominated by infrastructure as a service (IaaS) offerings—
products such as VMs and virtual disks that are essentially rented slices of hardware.
Slowly, we’ve seen a shift toward platform as a service (PaaS), while SaaS products
continue to grow at a rapid clip.
PaaS includes IaaS products but adds more sophisticated managed services to support
applications. Examples are managed databases such as Amazon Relational Database
Service (RDS) and Google Cloud SQL, managed streaming platforms such as Ama‐
zon Kinesis and Simple Queue Service (SQS), and managed Kubernetes such as Goo‐
gle Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). PaaS services
allow engineers to ignore the operational details of managing individual machines
and deploying frameworks across distributed systems. They provide turnkey access to
complex, autoscaling systems with minimal operational overhead.
SaaS offerings move one additional step up the ladder of abstraction. SaaS typically
provides a fully functioning enterprise software platform with little operational man‐
agement. Examples of SaaS include Salesforce, Google Workspace, Microsoft 365,
Zoom, and Fivetran. Both the major public clouds and third parties offer SaaS
platforms. SaaS covers a whole spectrum of enterprise domains, including video
conferencing, data management, ad tech, office applications, and CRM systems.
124
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

This chapter also discusses serverless, increasingly important in PaaS and SaaS offer‐
ings. Serverless products generally offer automated scaling from zero to extremely
high usage rates. They are billed on a pay-as-you-go basis and allow engineers to
operate without operational awareness of underlying servers. Many people quibble
with the term serverless; after all, the code must run somewhere. In practice, server‐
less usually means many invisible servers.
Cloud services have become increasingly appealing to established businesses with
existing data centers and IT infrastructure. Dynamic, seamless scaling is extremely
valuable to businesses that deal with seasonality (e.g., retail businesses coping with
Black Friday load) and web traffic load spikes. The advent of COVID-19 in 2020
was a major driver of cloud adoption, as companies recognized the value of rapidly
scaling up data processes to gain insights in a highly uncertain business climate;
businesses also had to cope with substantially increased load due to a spike in online
shopping, web app usage, and remote work.
Before we discuss the nuances of choosing technologies in the cloud, let’s first discuss
why migration to the cloud requires a dramatic shift in thinking, specifically on the
pricing front; this is closely related to FinOps, introduced in “FinOps” on page 120.
Enterprises that migrate to the cloud often make major deployment errors by not
appropriately adapting their practices to the cloud pricing model.
A Brief Detour on Cloud Economics
To understand how to use cloud services efficiently through cloud native architecture,
you need to know how clouds make money. This is an extremely complex concept
and one on which cloud providers offer little transparency. Consider this sidebar a
starting point for your research, discovery, and process development.
Cloud Services and Credit Default Swaps
Let’s go on a little tangent about credit default swaps. Don’t worry, this will make
sense in a bit. Recall that credit default swaps rose to infamy after the 2007 global
financial crisis. A credit default swap was a mechanism for selling different tiers of
risk attached to an asset (e.g., a mortgage). It is not our intention to present this
idea in any detail, but rather to offer an analogy wherein many cloud services are
similar to financial derivatives; cloud providers not only slice hardware assets into
small pieces through virtualization, but also sell these pieces with varying technical
characteristics and risks attached. While providers are extremely tight-lipped about
details of their internal systems, there are massive opportunities for optimization and
scaling by understanding cloud pricing and exchanging notes with other users.
Location
|
125

Look at the example of archival cloud storage. At the time of this writing, GCP openly
admits that its archival class storage runs on the same clusters as standard cloud
storage, yet the price per gigabyte per month of archival storage is roughly 1/17 that
of standard storage. How is this possible?
Here’s our educated guess. When purchasing cloud storage, each disk in a storage
cluster has three assets that cloud providers and consumers use. First, it has a certain
storage capacity—say, 10 TB. Second, it supports a certain number of input/output
operations (IOPs) per second—say, 100. Third, disks support a certain maximum
bandwidth, the maximum read speed for optimally organized files. A magnetic drive
might be capable of reading at 200 MB/s.
Any of these limits (IOPs, storage capacity, bandwidth) is a potential bottleneck for
a cloud provider. For instance, the cloud provider might have a disk storing 3 TB of
data but hitting maximum IOPs. An alternative to leaving the remaining 7 TB empty
is to sell the empty space without selling IOPs. Or, more specifically, sell cheap storage
space and expensive IOPs to discourage reads.
Much like traders of financial derivatives, cloud vendors also deal in risk. In the case
of archival storage, vendors are selling a type of insurance, but one that pays out for
the insurer rather than the policy buyer in the event of a catastrophe. While data
storage costs per month are extremely cheap, I risk paying a high price if I ever need
to retrieve data. But this is a price that I will happily pay in a true emergency.
Similar considerations apply to nearly any cloud service. While on-premises servers
are essentially sold as commodity hardware, the cost model in the cloud is more
subtle. Rather than just charging for CPU cores, memory, and features, cloud vendors
monetize characteristics such as durability, reliability, longevity, and predictability; a
variety of compute platforms discount their offerings for workloads that are ephem‐
eral or can be arbitrarily interrupted when capacity is needed elsewhere.
Cloud ≠ On Premises
This heading may seem like a silly tautology, but the belief that cloud services are
just like familiar on-premises servers is a widespread cognitive error that plagues
cloud migrations and leads to horrifying bills. This demonstrates a broader issue in
tech that we refer to as the curse of familiarity. Many new technology products are
intentionally designed to look like something familiar to facilitate ease of use and
accelerate adoption. But, any new technology product has subtleties and wrinkles that
users must learn to identify, accommodate, and optimize.
Moving on-premises servers one by one to VMs in the cloud—known as simple lift
and shift—is a perfectly reasonable strategy for the initial phase of cloud migration,
especially when a company is facing some kind of financial cliff, such as the need
to sign a significant new lease or hardware contract if existing hardware is not shut
down. However, companies that leave their cloud assets in this initial state are in for
126
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

