# Principle 2: Plan for Failure

Paginas: 104-104

8 UberPulse, “Amazon.com CTO: Everything Fails,” YouTube video, 3:03, https://oreil.ly/vDVlX.
Choosing common components is a balancing act. On the one hand, you need to
focus on needs across the data engineering lifecycle and teams, utilize common
components that will be useful for individual projects, and simultaneously facilitate
interoperation and collaboration. On the other hand, architects should avoid deci‐
sions that will hamper the productivity of engineers working on domain-specific
problems by forcing them into one-size-fits-all technology solutions. Chapter 4 pro‐
vides additional details.
Principle 2: Plan for Failure
Everything fails, all the time.
—Werner Vogels, CTO of Amazon Web Services8
Modern hardware is highly robust and durable. Even so, any hardware component
will fail, given enough time. To build highly robust data systems, you must consider
failures in your designs. Here are a few key terms for evaluating failure scenarios; we
describe these in greater detail in this chapter and throughout the book:
Availability
The percentage of time an IT service or component is in an operable state.
Reliability
The system’s probability of meeting defined standards in performing its intended
function during a specified interval.
Recovery time objective
The maximum acceptable time for a service or system outage. The recovery time
objective (RTO) is generally set by determining the business impact of an outage.
An RTO of one day might be fine for an internal reporting system. A website
outage of just five minutes could have a significant adverse business impact on an
online retailer.
Recovery point objective
The acceptable state after recovery. In data systems, data is often lost during an
outage. In this setting, the recovery point objective (RPO) refers to the maximum
acceptable data loss.
Engineers need to consider acceptable reliability, availability, RTO, and RPO in
designing for failure. These will guide their architecture decisions as they assess
possible failure scenarios.
Principles of Good Data Architecture
|
79

