# Upstream Stakeholders

Paginas: 354-354

basic enrichment process that adds data to individual events can deliver one event at
a time with low latency. However, a triggered metric on windows may run every few
seconds, every few minutes, etc.
When you’re using windows and triggers (hence, batch processing), what’s the win‐
dow frequency? What’s the acceptable latency? If you are collecting Black Friday sales
metrics published every few minutes, micro-batches are probably just fine as long as
you set an appropriate micro-batch frequency. On the other hand, if your ops team
is computing metrics every second to detect DDoS attacks, true streaming may be in
order.
When should you use one over the other? Frankly, there is no universal answer. The
term micro-batch has often been used to dismiss competing technologies, but it may
work just fine for your use case and can be superior in many respects depending on
your needs. If your team already has expertise in Spark, you will be able to spin up a
Spark (micro-batch) streaming solution extremely fast.
There’s no substitute for domain expertise and real-world testing. Talk to experts
who can present an even-handed opinion. You can also easily test the alternatives by
spinning up tests on cloud infrastructure. Also, watch out for spurious benchmarks
provided by vendors. Vendors are notorious for cherry-picking benchmarks and
setting up artificial examples that don’t match reality (recall our conversation on
benchmarks in Chapter 4). Frequently, vendors will show massive advantages in their
benchmark results but fail to deliver in the real world for your use case.
Whom You’ll Work With
Queries, transformations, and modeling impact all stakeholders up and down the
data engineering lifecycle. The data engineer is responsible for several things at this
stage in the lifecycle. From a technical angle, the data engineer designs, builds, and
maintains the integrity of the systems that query and transform data. The data engi‐
neer also implements data models within this system. This is the most “full-contact”
stage where your focus is to add as much value as possible, both in terms of function‐
ing systems and reliable and trustworthy data.
Upstream Stakeholders
When it comes to transformations, upstream stakeholders can be broken into two
broad categories: those who control the business definitions and those who control
the systems generating data.
When interfacing with upstream stakeholders about business definitions and logic,
you’ll need to know the data sources—what they are, how they’re used, and the
business logic and definitions involved. You’ll work with the engineers in charge of
these source systems and the business stakeholders who oversee the complementary
Whom You’ll Work With
|
329

