# Query Federation

Paginas: 379-379

Streaming Systems
Streaming analytics are increasingly important in the realm of serving. At a high level,
understand that this type of serving may involve emitted metrics, which are different
from traditional queries.
Also, we see operational analytics databases playing a growing role in this area
(see “Operational Analytics” on page 346). These databases allow queries to run
across a large range of historical data, encompassing up-to-the-second current data.
Essentially, they combine aspects of OLAP databases with stream-processing systems.
Increasingly, you’ll work with streaming systems to serve data for analytics and ML,
so get familiar with this paradigm.
You’ve learned about streaming systems throughout the book. For an idea of where
it’s going, read about the live data stack in Chapter 11.
Query Federation
As you learned in Chapter 8, query federation pulls data from multiple sources,
such as data lakes, RDBMSs, and data warehouses. Federation is becoming more
popular as distributed query virtualization engines gain recognition as ways to serve
queries without going through the trouble of centralizing data in an OLAP system.
Today, you can find OSS options like Trino and Presto and managed services such
as Starburst. Some of these offerings describe themselves as ways to enable the data
mesh; time will tell how that unfolds.
When serving data for federated queries, you should be aware that the end user
might be querying several systems—OLTP, OLAP, APIs, filesystems, etc. (Figure 9-3).
Instead of serving data from a single system, you’re now serving data from multiple
systems, each with its usage patterns, quirks, and nuances. This poses challenges for
serving data. If federated queries touch live production source systems, you must
ensure that the federated query won’t consume excessive resources in the source.
Figure 9-3. A federated query with three data sources
354
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

