# Security for Low-Level Data Engineering

Paginas: 402-402

In principle, network security should be left to security experts at your company. (In
practice, you may need to assume significant responsibility for network security in
a small company.) As a data engineer, you will encounter databases, object storage,
and servers so often that you should at least be aware of simple measures you can
take to make sure you’re in line with good network access practices. Understand
what IPs and ports are open, to whom, and why. Allow the incoming IP addresses of
the systems and users that will access these ports (a.k.a. whitelisting IPs) and avoid
broadly opening connections for any reason. When accessing the cloud or a SaaS
tool, use an encrypted connection. For example, don’t use an unencrypted website
from a coffee shop.
Also, while this book has focused almost entirely on running workloads in the cloud,
we add a brief note here about hosting on-premises servers. Recall that in Chapter 3,
we discussed the difference between a hardened perimeter and zero-trust security.
The cloud is generally closer to zero-trust security—every action requires authentica‐
tion. We believe that the cloud is a more secure option for most organizations because
it imposes zero-trust practices and allows companies to leverage the army of security
engineers employed by the public clouds.
However, sometimes hardened perimeter security still makes sense; we find some
solace in the knowledge that nuclear missile silos are air gapped (not connected to
any networks). Air-gapped servers are the ultimate example of a hardened security
perimeter. Just keep in mind that even on premises, air-gapped servers are vulnerable
to human security failings.
Security for Low-Level Data Engineering
For engineers who work in the guts of data storage and processing systems, it is
critical to consider the security implications of every element. Any software library,
storage system, or compute node is a potential security vulnerability. A flaw in an
obscure logging library might allow attackers to bypass access controls or encryption.
Even CPU architectures and microcode represent potential vulnerabilities; sensitive
data can be vulnerable when it’s at rest in memory or a CPU cache. No link in the
chain can be taken for granted.
Of course, this book is principally about high-level data engineering—stitching
together tools to handle the entire lifecycle. Thus, we’ll leave it to you to dig into
the gory technical details.
Internal security research
We discussed the idea of active security in “Processes” on page 371. We also highly
recommend adopting an active security approach to technology. Specifically, this
means that every technology employee should think about security problems.
Technology
|
377

