# Payload

Paginas: 266-268

Payload
A payload is the dataset you’re ingesting and has characteristics such as kind, shape,
size, schema and data types, and metadata. Let’s look at some of these characteristics
to understand why this matters.
Kind
The kind of data you handle directly impacts how it’s dealt with downstream in the
data engineering lifecycle. Kind consists of type and format. Data has a type—tabular,
image, video, text, etc. The type directly influences the data format or the way it
is expressed in bytes, names, and file extensions. For example, a tabular kind of
data may be in formats such as CSV or Parquet, with each of these formats having
different byte patterns for serialization and deserialization. Another kind of data is an
image, which has a format of JPG or PNG and is inherently unstructured.
Shape
Every payload has a shape that describes its dimensions. Data shape is critical across
the data engineering lifecycle. For instance, an image’s pixel and red, green, blue
(RGB) dimensions are necessary for training deep learning models. As another
example, if you’re trying to import a CSV file into a database table, and your CSV
has more columns than the database table, you’ll likely get an error during the import
process. Here are some examples of the shapes of various kinds of data:
Tabular
The number of rows and columns in the dataset, commonly expressed as M rows
and N columns
Semistructured JSON
The key-value pairs and nesting depth occur with subelements
Unstructured text
Number of words, characters, or bytes in the text body
Images
The width, height, and RGB color depth (e.g., 8 bits per pixel)
Uncompressed audio
Number of channels (e.g., two for stereo), sample depth (e.g., 16 bits per sample),
sample rate (e.g., 48 kHz), and length (e.g., 10,003 seconds)
Size
The size of the data describes the number of bytes of a payload. A payload may range
in size from single bytes to terabytes and larger. To reduce the size of a payload, it
Key Engineering Considerations for the Ingestion Phase
|
241

may be compressed into various formats such as ZIP and TAR (see the discussion of
compression in Appendix A).
A massive payload can also be split into chunks, which effectively reduces the size
of the payload into smaller subsections. When loading a huge file into a cloud object
storage or data warehouse, this is a common practice as the small individual files
are easier to transmit over a network (especially if they’re compressed). The smaller
chunked files are sent to their destination and then reassembled after all data has
arrived.
Schema and data types
Many data payloads have a schema, such as tabular and semistructured data. As
mentioned earlier in this book, a schema describes the fields and types of data
within those fields. Other data, such as unstructured text, images, and audio, will not
have an explicit schema or data types. However, they might come with technical file
descriptions on shape, data and file format, encoding, size, etc.
Although you can connect to databases in various ways (such as file export, CDC,
JDBC/ODBC), the connection is easy. The great engineering challenge is understand‐
ing the underlying schema. Applications organize data in various ways, and engineers
need to be intimately familiar with the organization of the data and relevant update
patterns to make sense of it. The problem has been somewhat exacerbated by the
popularity of object-relational mapping (ORM), which automatically generates sche‐
mas based on object structure in languages such as Java or Python. Natural structures
in an object-oriented language often map to something messy in an operational
database. Data engineers may need to familiarize themselves with the class structure
of application code.
Schema is not only for databases. As we’ve discussed, APIs present their schema
complications. Many vendor APIs have friendly reporting methods that prepare data
for analytics. In other cases, engineers are not so lucky. The API is a thin wrapper
around underlying systems, requiring engineers to understand application internals
to use the data.
Much of the work associated with ingesting from source schemas happens in the
data engineering lifecycle transformation stage, which we discuss in Chapter 8. We’ve
placed this discussion here because data engineers need to begin studying source
schemas as soon they plan to ingest data from a new source.
Communication is critical for understanding source data, and engineers also have
the opportunity to reverse the flow of communication and help software engineers
improve data where it is produced. Later in this chapter, we’ll return to this topic in
“Whom You’ll Work With” on page 262.
242
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

Detecting and handling upstream and downstream schema changes. Changes in schema
frequently occur in source systems and are often well out of data engineers’ control.
Examples of schema changes include the following:
• Adding a new column
•
• Changing a column type
•
• Creating a new table
•
• Renaming a column
•
It’s becoming increasingly common for ingestion tools to automate the detection of
schema changes and even auto-update target tables. Ultimately, this is something of a
mixed blessing. Schema changes can still break pipelines downstream of staging and
ingestion.
Engineers must still implement strategies to respond to changes automatically and
alert on changes that cannot be accommodated automatically. Automation is excel‐
lent, but the analysts and data scientists who rely on this data should be informed
of the schema changes that violate existing assumptions. Even if automation can
accommodate a change, the new schema may adversely affect the performance of
reports and models. Communication between those making schema changes and
those impacted by these changes is as important as reliable automation that checks
for schema changes.
Schema registries. In streaming data, every message has a schema, and these schemas
may evolve between producers and consumers. A schema registry is a metadata
repository used to maintain schema and data type integrity in the face of constantly
changing schemas. Schema registries can also track schema versions and history. It
describes the data model for messages, allowing consistent serialization and deseriali‐
zation between producers and consumers. Schema registries are used in most major
data tools and clouds.
Metadata
In addition to the apparent characteristics we’ve just covered, a payload often con‐
tains metadata, which we first discussed in Chapter 2. Metadata is data about data.
Metadata can be as critical as the data itself. One of the significant limitations of
the early approach to the data lake—or data swamp, which could become a data
superfund site—was a complete lack of attention to metadata. Without a detailed
description of the data, it may be of little value. We’ve already discussed some types of
metadata (e.g., schema) and will address them many times throughout this chapter.
Key Engineering Considerations for the Ingestion Phase
|
243

