# Modern Data Stack

Paginas: 128-128

introduced the notion of a data lakehouse. The lakehouse incorporates the controls,
data management, and data structures found in a data warehouse while still housing
data in object storage and supporting a variety of query and transformation engines.
In particular, the data lakehouse supports atomicity, consistency, isolation, and dura‐
bility (ACID) transactions, a big departure from the original data lake, where you
simply pour in data and never update or delete it. The term data lakehouse suggests a
convergence between data lakes and data warehouses.
The technical architecture of cloud data warehouses has evolved to be very similar to
a data lake architecture. Cloud data warehouses separate compute from storage, sup‐
port petabyte-scale queries, store a variety of unstructured data and semistructured
objects, and integrate with advanced processing technologies such as Spark or Beam.
We believe that the trend of convergence will only continue. The data lake and the
data warehouse will still exist as different architectures. In practice, their capabilities
will converge so that few users will notice a boundary between them in their day-to-
day work. We now see several vendors offering data platforms that combine data
lake and data warehouse capabilities. From our perspective, AWS, Azure, Google
Cloud, Snowflake, and Databricks are class leaders, each offering a constellation of
tightly integrated tools for working with data, running the gamut from relational to
completely unstructured. Instead of choosing between a data lake or data warehouse
architecture, future data engineers will have the option to choose a converged data
platform based on a variety of factors, including vendor, ecosystem, and relative
openness.
Modern Data Stack
The modern data stack (Figure 3-13) is currently a trendy analytics architecture
that highlights the type of abstraction we expect to see more widely used over the
next several years. Whereas past data stacks relied on expensive, monolithic toolsets,
the main objective of the modern data stack is to use cloud-based, plug-and-play,
easy-to-use, off-the-shelf components to create a modular and cost-effective data
architecture. These components include data pipelines, storage, transformation, data
management/governance, monitoring, visualization, and exploration. The domain is
still in flux, and the specific tools are changing and evolving rapidly, but the core aim
will remain the same: to reduce complexity and increase modularization. Note that
the notion of a modern data stack integrates nicely with the converged data platform
idea from the previous section.
Figure 3-13. Basic components of the modern data stack
Examples and Types of Data Architecture
|
103

