# Data Mesh

Paginas: 368-368

departments. When the definition of a customer varies, these must be documented
and made available to everyone who uses the data.
Data logic stipulates formulas for deriving metrics from data—say, gross sales or
customer lifetime value. Proper data logic must encode data definitions and details
of statistical calculations. To compute customer churn metrics, we would need a
definition: who is a customer? To calculate net profits, we would need a set of logical
rules to determine which expenses to deduct from gross revenue.
Frequently, we see data definitions and logic taken for granted, often passed around
the organization in the form of institutional knowledge. Institutional knowledge takes
on a life of its own, often at the expense of anecdotes replacing data-driven insights,
decisions, and actions. Instead, formally declaring data definitions and logic both in a
data catalog and within the systems of the data engineering lifecycle goes a long way
to ensuring data correctness, consistency, and trustworthiness.
Data definitions can be served in many ways, sometimes explicitly, but mostly implic‐
itly. By implicit, we mean that anytime you serve data for a query, a dashboard, or
an ML model, the data and derived metrics are presented consistently and correctly.
When you write a SQL query, you’re implicitly assuming that the inputs to this query
are correct, including upstream pipeline logic and definitions. This is where data
modeling (described in Chapter 8) is incredibly useful to capture data definitions and
logic in a way that’s understandable and usable by multiple end users.
Using a semantic layer, you consolidate business definitions and logic in a reusable
fashion. Write once, use anywhere. This paradigm is an object-oriented approach
to metrics, calculations, and logic. We’ll have more to say in “Semantic and Metrics
Layers” on page 355.
Data Mesh
Data mesh will increasingly be a consideration when serving data. Data mesh funda‐
mentally changes the way data is served within an organization. Instead of siloed data
teams serving their internal constituents, every domain team takes on two aspects of
decentralized, peer-to-peer data serving.
First, teams are responsible for serving data to other teams by preparing it for con‐
sumption. Data must be good for use in data apps, dashboards, analytics, and BI
tools across the organization. Second, each team potentially runs its dashboards and
analytics for self-service. Teams consume data from across the organization based
on the particular needs in their domain. Data consumed from other teams may
also make its way into the software designed by a domain team through embedded
analytics or an ML feature.
General Considerations for Serving Data
|
343

