# Data Migration

Paginas: 272-272

Inserts, Updates, and Batch Size
Batch-oriented systems often perform poorly when users attempt to perform many
small-batch operations rather than a smaller number of large operations. For exam‐
ple, while it is common to insert one row at a time in a transactional database, this is
a bad pattern for many columnar databases, as it forces the creation of many small,
suboptimal files and forces the system to run a high number of create object opera‐
tions. Running many small in-place update operations is an even bigger problem
because it causes the database to scan each existing column file to run the update.
Understand the appropriate update patterns for the database or data store you’re
working with. Also, understand that certain technologies are purpose-built for high
insert rates. For example, Apache Druid and Apache Pinot can handle high insert
rates. SingleStore can manage hybrid workloads that combine OLAP and OLTP
characteristics. BigQuery performs poorly on a high rate of vanilla SQL single-row
inserts but extremely well if data is fed in through its stream buffer. Know the limits
and characteristics of your tools.
Data Migration
Migrating data to a new database or environment is not usually trivial, and data needs
to be moved in bulk. Sometimes this means moving data sizes that are hundreds of
terabytes or much larger, often involving the migration of specific tables and moving
entire databases and systems.
Data migrations probably aren’t a regular occurrence as a data engineer, but you
should be familiar with them. As is often the case for data ingestion, schema manage‐
ment is a crucial consideration. Suppose you’re migrating data from one database
system to a different one (say, SQL Server to Snowflake). No matter how closely the
two databases resemble each other, subtle differences almost always exist in the way
they handle schema. Fortunately, it is generally easy to test ingestion of a sample of
data and find schema issues before undertaking a complete table migration.
Most data systems perform best when data is moved in bulk rather than as individual
rows or events. File or object storage is often an excellent intermediate stage for
transferring data. Also, one of the biggest challenges of database migration is not the
movement of the data itself but the movement of data pipeline connections from the
old system to the new one.
Be aware that many tools are available to automate various types of data migrations.
Especially for large and complex migrations, we suggest looking at these options
before doing this manually or writing your own migration solution.
Batch Ingestion Considerations
|
247

