# Data Storage Lifecycle and Data Retention

Paginas: 248-250

Zero-copy cloning
Cloud-based systems based around object storage support zero-copy cloning. This
typically means that a new virtual copy of an object is created (e.g., a new table)
without necessarily physically copying the underlying data. Typically, new pointers
are created to the raw data files, and future changes to these tables will not be recor‐
ded in the old table. For those familiar with the inner workings of object-oriented
languages such as Python, this type of “shallow” copying is familiar from other
contexts.
Zero-copy cloning is a compelling feature, but engineers must understand its
strengths and limitations. For example, cloning an object in a data lake environment
and then deleting the files in the original object might also wipe out the new object.
For fully managed object-store-based systems (e.g., Snowflake and BigQuery), engi‐
neers need to be extremely familiar with the exact limits of shallow copying. Engi‐
neers have more access to underlying object storage in data lake systems such as
Databricks—a blessing and a curse. Data engineers should exercise great caution
before deleting any raw files in the underlying object store. Databricks and other
data lake management technologies sometimes also support a notion of deep copying,
whereby all underlying data objects are copied. This is a more expensive process, but
also more robust in the event that files are unintentionally lost or deleted.
Data Storage Lifecycle and Data Retention
Storing data isn’t as simple as just saving it to object storage or disk and forgetting
about it. You need to think about the data storage lifecycle and data retention. When
you think about access frequency and use cases, ask, “How important is the data to
downstream users, and how often do they need to access it?” This is the data storage
lifecycle. Another question you should ask is, “How long should I keep this data?” Do
you need to retain data indefinitely, or are you fine discarding it past a certain time
frame? This is data retention. Let’s dive into each of these.
Hot, warm, and cold data
Did you know that data has a temperature? Depending on how frequently data is
accessed, we can roughly bucket the way it is stored into three categories of persis‐
tence: hot, warm, and cold. Query access patterns differ for each dataset (Figure 6-9).
Typically, newer data is queried more often than older data. Let’s look at hot, cold,
and warm data in that order.
Big Ideas and Trends in Storage
|
223

Figure 6-9. Hot, warm, and cold data costs associated with access frequency
Hot data. Hot data has instant or frequent access requirements. The underlying
storage for hot data is suited for fast access and reads, such as SSD or memory.
Because of the type of hardware involved with hot data, storing hot data is often the
most expensive form of storage. Example use cases for hot data include retrieving
product recommendations and product page results. The cost of storing hot data is
the highest of these three storage tiers, but retrieval is often inexpensive.
Query results cache is another example of hot data. When a query is run, some
query engines will persist the query results in the cache. For a limited time, when the
same query is run, instead of rerunning the same query against storage, the query
results cache serves the cached results. This allows for much faster query response
times versus redundantly issuing the same query repeatedly. In upcoming chapters,
we cover query results caches in more detail.
Warm data. Warm data is accessed semi-regularly, say, once per month. No hard
and fast rules indicate how often warm data is accessed, but it’s less than hot data
and more than cold data. The major cloud providers offer object storage tiers that
accommodate warm data. For example, S3 offers an Infrequently Accessed Tier, and
Google Cloud has a similar storage tier called Nearline. Vendors give their models
of recommended access frequency, and engineers can also do their cost modeling
and monitoring. Storage of warm data is cheaper than hot data, with slightly more
expensive retrieval costs.
Cold data. On the other extreme, cold data is infrequently accessed data. The hard‐
ware used to archive cold data is typically cheap and durable, such as HDD, tape
storage, and cloud-based archival systems. Cold data is mainly meant for long-term
archival, when there’s little to no intention to access the data. Though storing cold
data is cheap, retrieving cold data is often expensive.
Storage tier considerations. When considering the storage tier for your data, consider
the costs of each tier. If you store all of your data in hot storage, all of the data can
be accessed quickly. But this comes at a tremendous price! Conversely, if you store all
224
|
Chapter 6: Storage

data in cold storage to save on costs, you’ll certainly lower your storage costs, but at
the expense of prolonged retrieval times and high retrieval costs if you need to access
data. The storage price goes down from faster/higher performing storage to lower
storage.
Cold storage is popular for archiving data. Historically, cold storage involved physical
backups and often mailing this data to a third party that would archive it in a literal
vault. Cold storage is increasingly popular in the cloud. Every cloud vendor offers a
cold data solution, and you should weigh the cost of pushing data into cold storage
versus the cost and time to retrieve the data.
Data engineers need to account for spillover from hot to warm/cold storage. Memory
is expensive and finite. For example, if hot data is stored in memory, it can be spilled
to disk when there’s too much new data to store and not enough memory. Some
databases may move infrequently accessed data to warm or cold tiers, offloading
the data to either HDD or object storage. The latter is increasingly more common
because of the cost-effectiveness of object storage. If you’re in the cloud and using
managed services, disk spillover will happen automatically.
If you’re using cloud-based object storage, create automated lifecycle policies for your
data. This will drastically reduce your storage costs. For example, if your data needs
to be accessed only once a month, move the data to an infrequent access storage
tier. If your data is 180 days old and not accessed for current queries, move it to
an archival storage tier. In both cases, you can automate the migration of data away
from regular object storage, and you’ll save money. That said, consider the retrieval
costs—both in time and money—using infrequent or archival style storage tiers.
Access and retrieval times and costs may vary depending on the cloud provider. Some
cloud providers make it simple and cheap to migrate data into archive storage, but it
is costly and slow to retrieve your data.
Data retention
Back in the early days of “big data,” there was a tendency to err on the side of accu‐
mulating every piece of data possible, regardless of its usefulness. The expectation
was, “we might need this data in the future.” This data hoarding inevitably became
unwieldy and dirty, giving rise to data swamps and regulatory crackdowns on data
retention, among other consequences and nightmares. Nowadays, data engineers
need to consider data retention: what data do you need to keep, and how long should
you keep it? Here are some things to think about with data retention.
Value. Data is an asset, so you should know the value of the data you’re storing. Of
course, value is subjective and depends on what it’s worth to your immediate use case
and your broader organization. Is this data impossible to re-create, or can it easily be
re-created by querying upstream systems? What’s the impact to downstream users if
this data is available versus if it is not?
Big Ideas and Trends in Storage
|
225

