# Separation of Compute from Storage

Paginas: 245-247

as Parquet or JSON. CSV files are notorious for schema inconsistency and are not
recommended in this setting.
The principal advantage of schema on write is that it enforces data standards, mak‐
ing data easier to consume and utilize in the future. Schema on read emphasizes
flexibility, allowing virtually any data to be written. This comes at the cost of greater
difficulty consuming data in the future.
Separation of Compute from Storage
A key idea we revisit throughout this book is the separation of compute from storage.
This has emerged as a standard data access and query pattern in today’s cloud era.
Data lakes, as we discussed, store data in object stores and spin up temporary com‐
pute capacity to read and process it. Most fully managed OLAP products now rely
on object storage behind the scenes. To understand the motivations for separating
compute and storage, we should first look at the colocation of compute and storage.
Colocation of compute and storage
Colocation of compute and storage has long been a standard method to improve
database performance. For transactional databases, data colocation allows fast, low-
latency disk reads and high bandwidth. Even when we virtualize storage (e.g., using
Amazon EBS), data is located relatively close to the host machine.
The same basic idea applies for analytics query systems running across a cluster of
machines. For example, with HDFS and MapReduce, the standard approach is to
locate data blocks that need to be scanned in the cluster, and then push individual
map jobs out to these blocks. The data scan and processing for the map step are
strictly local. The reduce step involves shuffling data across the cluster, but keeping
map steps local effectively preserves more bandwidth for shuffling, delivering better
overall performance; map steps that filter heavily also dramatically reduce the amount
of data to be shuffled.
Separation of compute and storage
If colocation of compute and storage delivers high performance, why the shift toward
separation of compute and storage? Several motivations exist.
Ephemerality and scalability. In the cloud, we’ve seen a dramatic shift toward ephemer‐
ality. In general, it’s cheaper to buy and host a server than to rent it from a cloud
provider, provided that you’re running it 24 hours a day nonstop for years on end. In
practice, workloads vary dramatically, and significant efficiencies are realized with a
pay-as-you-go model if servers can scale up and down. This is true for web servers in
online retail, and it is also true for big data batch jobs that may run only periodically.
220
|
Chapter 6: Storage

Ephemeral compute resources allow engineers to spin up massive clusters to com‐
plete jobs on time and then delete clusters when these jobs are done. The per‐
formance benefits of temporarily operating at ultra-high scale can outweigh the
bandwidth limitations of object storage.
Data durability and availability. Cloud object stores significantly mitigate the risk of
data loss and generally provide extremely high uptime (availability). For example, S3
stores data across multiple zones; if a natural disaster destroys a zone, data is still
available from the remaining zones. Having multiple zones available also reduces the
odds of a data outage. If resources in one zone go down, engineers can spin up the
same resources in a different zone.
The potential for a misconfiguration that destroys data in object storage is still some‐
what scary, but simple-to-deploy mitigations are available. Copying data to multiple
cloud regions reduces this risk since configuration changes are generally deployed to
only one region at a time. Replicating data to multiple storage providers can further
reduce the risk.
Hybrid separation and colocation
The practical realities of separating compute from storage are more complicated
than we’ve implied. In practice, we constantly hybridize colocation and separation to
realize the benefits of both approaches. This hybridization is typically done in two
ways: multitier caching and hybrid object storage.
With multitier caching, we utilize object storage for long-term data retention and
access but spin up local storage to be used during queries and various stages of data
pipelines. Both Google and Amazon offer versions of hybrid object storage (object
storage that is tightly integrated with compute).
Let’s look at examples of how some popular processing engines hybridize separation
and colocation of storage and compute.
Example: AWS EMR with S3 and HDFS. Big data services like Amazon EMR spin up tem‐
porary HDFS clusters to process data. Engineers have the option of referencing both
S3 and HDFS as a filesystem. A common pattern is to stand up HDFS on SSD drives,
pull from S3, and save data from intermediate processing steps on local HDFS. Doing
so can realize significant performance gains over processing directly from S3. Full
results are written back to S3 once the cluster completes its steps, and the cluster and
HDFS are deleted. Other consumers read the output data directly from S3.
Example: Apache Spark. In practice, Spark generally runs jobs on HDFS or some other
ephemeral distributed filesystem to support performant storage of data between
processing steps. In addition, Spark relies heavily on in-memory storage of data to
improve processing. The problem with owning the infrastructure for running Spark
Big Ideas and Trends in Storage
|
221

4 Valliappa Lakshmanan and Jordan Tigani, Google BigQuery: The Definitive Guide (Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly,
2019), 16–17, 188, https://oreil.ly/5aXXu.
is that dynamic RAM (DRAM) is extremely expensive; by separating compute and
storage in the cloud, we can rent large quantities of memory and then release that
memory when the job completes.
Example: Apache Druid. Apache Druid relies heavily on SSDs to realize high perfor‐
mance. Since SSDs are significantly more expensive than magnetic disks, Druid keeps
only one copy of data in its cluster, reducing “live” storage costs by a factor of three.
Of course, maintaining data durability is still critical, so Druid uses an object store as
its durability layer. When data is ingested, it’s processed, serialized into compressed
columns, and written to cluster SSDs and object storage. In the event of node failure
or cluster data corruption, data can be automatically recovered to new nodes. In
addition, the cluster can be shut down and then fully recovered from SSD storage.
Example: Hybrid object storage. Google’s Colossus file storage system supports fine-
grained control of data block location, although this functionality is not exposed
directly to the public. BigQuery uses this feature to colocate customer tables in a
single location, allowing ultra-high bandwidth for queries in that location.4 We refer
to this as hybrid object storage because it combines the clean abstractions of object
storage with some advantages of colocating compute and storage. Amazon also offers
some notion of hybrid object storage through S3 Select, a feature that allows users to
filter S3 data directly in S3 clusters before data is returned across the network.
We speculate that public clouds will adopt hybrid object storage more widely to
improve the performance of their offerings and make more efficient use of available
network resources. Some may be already doing so without disclosing this publicly.
The concept of hybrid object storage underscores that there can still be advantages
to having low-level access to hardware rather than relying on someone else’s public
cloud. Public cloud services do not expose low-level details of hardware and systems
(e.g., data block locations for Colossus), but these details can be extremely useful in
performance optimization and enhancement. See our discussion of cloud economics
in Chapter 4.
While we’re now seeing a mass migration of data to public clouds, we believe that
many hyper-scale data service vendors that currently run on public clouds provided
by other vendors may build their data centers in the future, albeit with deep network
integration into public clouds.
222
|
Chapter 6: Storage

