# What You’ll Learn and How It Will Improve Your Abilities

Paginas: 20-20

Prerequisites
We assume a good deal of familiarity with the types of data systems found in a
corporate setting. In addition, we assume that readers have some familiarity with
SQL and Python (or some other programming language), and experience with cloud
services.
Numerous resources are available for aspiring data engineers to practice Python and
SQL. Free online resources abound (blog posts, tutorial sites, YouTube videos), and
many new Python books are published every year.
The cloud provides unprecedented opportunities to get hands-on experience with
data tools. We suggest that aspiring data engineers set up accounts with cloud services
such as AWS, Azure, Google Cloud Platform, Snowflake, Databricks, etc. Note that
many of these platforms have free tier options, but readers should keep a close eye on
costs and work with small quantities of data and single node clusters as they study.
Developing familiarity with corporate data systems outside of a corporate environ‐
ment remains difficult, and this creates certain barriers for aspiring data engineers
who have yet to land their first data job. This book can help. We suggest that
data novices read for high-level ideas and then look at materials in the Additional
Resources section at the end of each chapter. On a second read through, note any
unfamiliar terms and technologies. You can utilize Google, Wikipedia, blog posts,
YouTube videos, and vendor sites to become familiar with new terms and fill gaps in
your understanding.
What You’ll Learn and How It Will Improve Your Abilities
This book aims to help you build a solid foundation for solving real-world data
engineering problems.
By the end of this book you will understand:
• How data engineering impacts your current role (data scientist, software engi‐
•
neer, or data team lead)
• How to cut through the marketing hype and choose the right technologies, data
•
architecture, and processes
• How to use the data engineering lifecycle to design and build a robust
•
architecture
• Best practices for each stage of the data lifecycle
•
Preface
|
xv

