# Row-Based Serialization

Paginas: 416-417

APPENDIX A
Serialization and Compression
Technical Details
Data engineers working in the cloud are generally freed from the complexities of
managing object storage systems. Still, they need to understand details of serialization
and deserialization formats. As we mentioned in Chapter 6 about storage raw ingre‐
dients, serialization and compression algorithms go hand in hand.
Serialization Formats
Many serialization algorithms and formats are available to data engineers. While the
abundance of options is a significant source of pain in data engineering, they are
also a massive opportunity for performance improvements. We’ve sometimes seen
job performance improve by a factor of 100 simply by switching from CSV to Parquet
serialization. As data moves through a pipeline, engineers will also manage reseriali‐
zation—conversion from one format to another. Sometimes data engineers have no
choice but to accept data in an ancient, nasty form; they must design processes to
deserialize this format and handle exceptions, and then clean up and convert data for
consistent, fast downstream processing and consumption.
Row-Based Serialization
As its name suggests, row-based serialization organizes data by row. CSV format is
an archetypal row-based format. For semistructured data (data objects that support
nesting and schema variation), row-oriented serialization entails storing each object
as a unit.
391

CSV: The nonstandard standard
We discussed CSV in Chapter 7. CSV is a serialization format that data engineers love
to hate. The term CSV is essentially a catchall for delimited text, but there is flexibility
in conventions of escaping, quote characters, delimiter, and more.
Data engineers should avoid using CSV files in pipelines because they are highly
error-prone and deliver poor performance. Engineers are often required to use CSV
format to exchange data with systems and business processes outside their control.
CSV is a common format for data archival. If you use CSV for archival, include a
complete technical description of the serialization configuration for your files so that
future consumers can ingest the data.
XML
Extensible Markup Language (XML) was popular when HTML and the internet were
new, but it is now viewed as legacy; it is generally slow to deserialize and serialize for
data engineering applications. XML is another standard that data engineers are often
forced to interact with as they exchange data with legacy systems and software. JSON
has largely replaced XML for plain-text object serialization.
JSON and JSONL
JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) has emerged as the new standard for data
exchange over APIs, and it has also become an extremely popular format for data
storage. In the context of databases, the popularity of JSON has grown apace with
the rise of MongoDB and other document stores. Databases such as Snowflake,
BigQuery, and SQL Server also offer extensive native support, facilitating easy data
exchange between applications, APIs, and database systems.
JSON Lines (JSONL) is a specialized version of JSON for storing bulk semistructured
data in files. JSONL stores a sequence of JSON objects, with objects delimited by
line breaks. From our perspective, JSONL is an extremely useful format for storing
data right after it is ingested from API or applications. However, many columnar
formats offer significantly better performance. Consider moving to another format
for intermediate pipeline stages and serving.
Avro
Avro is a row-oriented data format designed for RPCs and data serialization. Avro
encodes data into a binary format, with schema metadata specified in JSON. Avro is
popular in the Hadoop ecosystem and is also supported by various cloud data tools.
392
|
Appendix A: Serialization and Compression Technical Details

