# “Enterprisey” Data Engineering

Paginas: 408-408

2 Ben Rogojan, “Three Data Engineering Experts Share Their Thoughts on Where Data Is Headed,” Better
Programming, May 27, 2021, https://oreil.ly/IsY4W.
We will also see significant enhancements in the domain of live data—e.g., streaming
pipelines and databases capable of ingesting and querying streaming data. In the past,
building a streaming DAG was an extremely complex process with a high ongoing
operational burden (see Chapter 8). Tools like Apache Pulsar point the way toward
a future in which streaming DAGs can be deployed with complex transformations
using relatively simple code. We have already seen the emergence of managed stream
processors (such as Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics and Google Cloud Dataflow),
but we will see a new generation of orchestration tools for managing these services,
stitching them together, and monitoring them. We discuss live data in “The Live Data
Stack” on page 385.
What does this enhanced abstraction mean for data engineers? As we’ve already
argued in this chapter, the role of the data engineer won’t go away, but it will
evolve significantly. By comparison, more sophisticated mobile operating systems
and frameworks have not eliminated mobile app developers. Instead, mobile app
developers can now focus on building better-quality, more sophisticated applications.
We expect similar developments for data engineering as the cloud-scale data OS
paradigm increases interoperability and simplicity across various applications and
systems.
“Enterprisey” Data Engineering
The increasing simplification of data tools and the emergence and documentation of
best practices means data engineering will become more “enterprisey.”2 This will make
many readers violently cringe. The term enterprise, for some, conjures Kafkaesque
nightmares of faceless committees dressed in overly starched blue shirts and khakis,
endless red tape, and waterfall-managed development projects with constantly slip‐
ping schedules and ballooning budgets. In short, some of you read “enterprise” and
imagine a soulless place where innovation goes to die.
Fortunately, this is not what we’re talking about; we’re referring to some of the good
things that larger companies do with data—management, operations, governance,
and other “boring” stuff. We’re presently living through the golden age of “enterpri‐
sey” data management tools. Technologies and practices once reserved for giant
organizations are trickling downstream. The once hard parts of big data and stream‐
ing data have now largely been abstracted away, with the focus shifting to ease of use,
interoperability, and other refinements.
“Enterprisey” Data Engineering
|
383

