# Data Management

Paginas: 75-83

Data security is also about timing—providing data access to exactly the people and
systems that need to access it and only for the duration necessary to perform their
work. Data should be protected from unwanted visibility, both in flight and at rest, by
using encryption, tokenization, data masking, obfuscation, and simple, robust access
controls.
Data engineers must be competent security administrators, as security falls in their
domain. A data engineer should understand security best practices for the cloud and
on prem. Knowledge of user and identity access management (IAM) roles, policies,
groups, network security, password policies, and encryption are good places to start.
Throughout the book, we highlight areas where security should be top of mind in the
data engineering lifecycle. You can also gain more detailed insights into security in
Chapter 10.
Data Management
You probably think that data management sounds very…corporate. “Old school” data
management practices make their way into data and ML engineering. What’s old
is new again. Data management has been around for decades but didn’t get a lot
of traction in data engineering until recently. Data tools are becoming simpler, and
there is less complexity for data engineers to manage. As a result, the data engineer
moves up the value chain toward the next rung of best practices. Data best practices
once reserved for huge companies—data governance, master data management, data-
quality management, metadata management—are now filtering down to companies
of all sizes and maturity levels. As we like to say, data engineering is becoming
“enterprisey.” This is ultimately a great thing!
The Data Management Association International (DAMA) Data Management Body of
Knowledge (DMBOK), which we consider to be the definitive book for enterprise data
management, offers this definition:
Data management is the development, execution, and supervision of plans, policies,
programs, and practices that deliver, control, protect, and enhance the value of data
and information assets throughout their lifecycle.
That’s a bit lengthy, so let’s look at how it ties to data engineering. Data engineers
manage the data lifecycle, and data management encompasses the set of best practices
that data engineers will use to accomplish this task, both technically and strategically.
Without a framework for managing data, data engineers are simply technicians
operating in a vacuum. Data engineers need a broader perspective of data’s utility
across the organization, from the source systems to the C-suite, and everywhere in
between.
Why is data management important? Data management demonstrates that data is
vital to daily operations, just as businesses view financial resources, finished goods,
50
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

1 Evren Eryurek et al., Data Governance: The Definitive Guide (Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly, 2021), 1,
https://oreil.ly/LFT4d.
or real estate as assets. Data management practices form a cohesive framework that
everyone can adopt to ensure that the organization gets value from data and handles
it appropriately.
Data management has quite a few facets, including the following:
• Data governance, including discoverability and accountability
•
• Data modeling and design
•
• Data lineage
•
• Storage and operations
•
• Data integration and interoperability
•
• Data lifecycle management
•
• Data systems for advanced analytics and ML
•
• Ethics and privacy
•
While this book is in no way an exhaustive resource on data management, let’s briefly
cover some salient points from each area as they relate to data engineering.
Data governance
According to Data Governance: The Definitive Guide, “Data governance is, first and
foremost, a data management function to ensure the quality, integrity, security, and
usability of the data collected by an organization.”1
We can expand on that definition and say that data governance engages people,
processes, and technologies to maximize data value across an organization while
protecting data with appropriate security controls. Effective data governance is devel‐
oped with intention and supported by the organization. When data governance is
accidental and haphazard, the side effects can range from untrusted data to security
breaches and everything in between. Being intentional about data governance will
maximize the organization’s data capabilities and the value generated from data.
It will also (hopefully) keep a company out of the headlines for questionable or
downright reckless data practices.
Think of the typical example of data governance being done poorly. A business
analyst gets a request for a report but doesn’t know what data to use to answer the
question. They may spend hours digging through dozens of tables in a transactional
database, wildly guessing at which fields might be useful. The analyst compiles a
“directionally correct” report but isn’t entirely sure that the report’s underlying data is
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
51

2 Eryurek, Data Governance, 5.
accurate or sound. The recipient of the report also questions the validity of the data.
The integrity of the analyst—and of all data in the company’s systems—is called into
question. The company is confused about its performance, making business planning
impossible.
Data governance is a foundation for data-driven business practices and a mission-
critical part of the data engineering lifecycle. When data governance is practiced well,
people, processes, and technologies align to treat data as a key business driver; if data
issues occur, they are promptly handled.
The core categories of data governance are discoverability, security, and accountabil‐
ity.2 Within these core categories are subcategories, such as data quality, metadata,
and privacy. Let’s look at each core category in turn.
Discoverability. In a data-driven company, data must be available and discoverable.
End users should have quick and reliable access to the data they need to do their jobs.
They should know where the data comes from, how it relates to other data, and what
the data means.
Some key areas of data discoverability include metadata management and master
data management. Let’s briefly describe these areas.
Metadata. Metadata is “data about data,” and it underpins every section of the data
engineering lifecycle. Metadata is exactly the data needed to make data discoverable
and governable.
We divide metadata into two major categories: autogenerated and human generated.
Modern data engineering revolves around automation, but metadata collection is
often manual and error prone.
Technology can assist with this process, removing much of the error-prone work of
manual metadata collection. We’re seeing a proliferation of data catalogs, data-lineage
tracking systems, and metadata management tools. Tools can crawl databases to look
for relationships and monitor data pipelines to track where data comes from and
where it goes. A low-fidelity manual approach uses an internally led effort where
various stakeholders crowdsource metadata collection within the organization. These
data management tools are covered in depth throughout the book, as they undercut
much of the data engineering lifecycle.
Metadata becomes a byproduct of data and data processes. However, key challenges
remain. In particular, interoperability and standards are still lacking. Metadata tools
are only as good as their connectors to data systems and their ability to share
52
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

3 Chris Williams et al., “Democratizing Data at Airbnb,” The Airbnb Tech Blog, May 12, 2017,
https://oreil.ly/dM332.
metadata. In addition, automated metadata tools should not entirely take humans out
of the loop.
Data has a social element; each organization accumulates social capital and knowl‐
edge around processes, datasets, and pipelines. Human-oriented metadata systems
focus on the social aspect of metadata. This is something that Airbnb has emphasized
in its various blog posts on data tools, particularly its original Dataportal concept.3
Such tools should provide a place to disclose data owners, data consumers, and
domain experts. Documentation and internal wiki tools provide a key foundation
for metadata management, but these tools should also integrate with automated data
cataloging. For example, data-scanning tools can generate wiki pages with links to
relevant data objects.
Once metadata systems and processes exist, data engineers can consume metadata in
useful ways. Metadata becomes a foundation for designing pipelines and managing
data throughout the lifecycle.
DMBOK identifies four main categories of metadata that are useful to data engineers:
• Business metadata
•
• Technical metadata
•
• Operational metadata
•
• Reference metadata
•
Let’s briefly describe each category of metadata.
Business metadata relates to the way data is used in the business, including business
and data definitions, data rules and logic, how and where data is used, and the data
owner(s).
A data engineer uses business metadata to answer nontechnical questions about who,
what, where, and how. For example, a data engineer may be tasked with creating a
data pipeline for customer sales analysis. But what is a customer? Is it someone who’s
purchased in the last 90 days? Or someone who’s purchased at any time the business
has been open? A data engineer would use the correct data to refer to business
metadata (data dictionary or data catalog) to look up how a “customer” is defined.
Business metadata provides a data engineer with the right context and definitions to
properly use data.
Technical metadata describes the data created and used by systems across the data
engineering lifecycle. It includes the data model and schema, data lineage, field
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
53

mappings, and pipeline workflows. A data engineer uses technical metadata to create,
connect, and monitor various systems across the data engineering lifecycle.
Here are some common types of technical metadata that a data engineer will use:
• Pipeline metadata (often produced in orchestration systems)
•
• Data lineage
•
• Schema
•
Orchestration is a central hub that coordinates workflow across various systems.
Pipeline metadata captured in orchestration systems provides details of the workflow
schedule, system and data dependencies, configurations, connection details, and
much more.
Data-lineage metadata tracks the origin and changes to data, and its dependencies,
over time. As data flows through the data engineering lifecycle, it evolves through
transformations and combinations with other data. Data lineage provides an audit
trail of data’s evolution as it moves through various systems and workflows.
Schema metadata describes the structure of data stored in a system such as a database,
a data warehouse, a data lake, or a filesystem; it is one of the key differentiators
across different storage systems. Object stores, for example, don’t manage schema
metadata; instead, this must be managed in a metastore. On the other hand, cloud
data warehouses manage schema metadata internally.
These are just a few examples of technical metadata that a data engineer should
know about. This is not a complete list, and we cover additional aspects of technical
metadata throughout the book.
Operational metadata describes the operational results of various systems and
includes statistics about processes, job IDs, application runtime logs, data used in
a process, and error logs. A data engineer uses operational metadata to determine
whether a process succeeded or failed and the data involved in the process.
Orchestration systems can provide a limited picture of operational metadata, but
the latter still tends to be scattered across many systems. A need for better-quality
operational metadata, and better metadata management, is a major motivation for
next-generation orchestration and metadata management systems.
Reference metadata is data used to classify other data. This is also referred to as lookup
data. Standard examples of reference data are internal codes, geographic codes, units
of measurement, and internal calendar standards. Note that much of reference data
is fully managed internally, but items such as geographic codes might come from
standard external references. Reference data is essentially a standard for interpreting
other data, so if it changes, this change happens slowly over time.
54
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

4 Eryurek, Data Governance, 113.
Data accountability. Data accountability means assigning an individual to govern a
portion of data. The responsible person then coordinates the governance activities of
other stakeholders. Managing data quality is tough if no one is accountable for the
data in question.
Note that people accountable for data need not be data engineers. The accountable
person might be a software engineer or product manager, or serve in another role.
In addition, the responsible person generally doesn’t have all the resources necessary
to maintain data quality. Instead, they coordinate with all people who touch the data,
including data engineers.
Data accountability can happen at various levels; accountability can happen at the
level of a table or a log stream but could be as fine-grained as a single field entity
that occurs across many tables. An individual may be accountable for managing a
customer ID across many systems. For enterprise data management, a data domain
is the set of all possible values that can occur for a given field type, such as in
this ID example. This may seem excessively bureaucratic and meticulous, but it can
significantly affect data quality.
Data quality.
Can I trust this data?
—Everyone in the business
Data quality is the optimization of data toward the desired state and orbits the
question, “What do you get compared with what you expect?” Data should conform
to the expectations in the business metadata. Does the data match the definition
agreed upon by the business?
A data engineer ensures data quality across the entire data engineering lifecycle. This
involves performing data-quality tests, and ensuring data conformance to schema
expectations, data completeness, and precision.
According to Data Governance: The Definitive Guide, data quality is defined by three
main characteristics:4
Accuracy
Is the collected data factually correct? Are there duplicate values? Are the
numeric values accurate?
Completeness
Are the records complete? Do all required fields contain valid values?
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
55

5 Tyler Akidau et al., “The Dataflow Model: A Practical Approach to Balancing Correctness, Latency, and Cost
in Massive-Scale, Unbounded, Out-of-Order Data Processing,” Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 8 (2015):
1792–1803, https://oreil.ly/Z6XYy.
Timeliness
Are records available in a timely fashion?
Each of these characteristics is quite nuanced. For example, how do we think about
bots and web scrapers when dealing with web event data? If we intend to analyze
the customer journey, we must have a process that lets us separate humans from
machine-generated traffic. Any bot-generated events misclassified as human present
data accuracy issues, and vice versa.
A variety of interesting problems arise concerning completeness and timeliness. In
the Google paper introducing the Dataflow model, the authors give the example of an
offline video platform that displays ads.5 The platform downloads video and ads while
a connection is present, allows the user to watch these while offline, and then uploads
ad view data once a connection is present again. This data may arrive late, well after
the ads are watched. How does the platform handle billing for the ads?
Fundamentally, this problem can’t be solved by purely technical means. Rather, engi‐
neers will need to determine their standards for late-arriving data and enforce these
uniformly, possibly with the help of various technology tools.
Master Data Management
Master data is data about business entities such as employees, customers, products,
and locations. As organizations grow larger and more complex through organic
growth and acquisitions, and collaborate with other businesses, maintaining a consis‐
tent picture of entities and identities becomes more and more challenging.
Master data management (MDM) is the practice of building consistent entity defi‐
nitions known as golden records. Golden records harmonize entity data across an
organization and with its partners. MDM is a business operations process facilitated
by building and deploying technology tools. For example, an MDM team might
determine a standard format for addresses, and then work with data engineers to
build an API to return consistent addresses and a system that uses address data to
match customer records across company divisions.
MDM reaches across the full data cycle into operational databases. It may fall directly
under the purview of data engineering but is often the assigned responsibility of a
dedicated team that works across the organization. Even if they don’t own MDM, data
engineers must always be aware of it, as they might collaborate on MDM initiatives.
56
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

Data quality sits across the boundary of human and technology problems. Data
engineers need robust processes to collect actionable human feedback on data quality
and use technology tools to detect quality issues preemptively before downstream
users ever see them. We cover these collection processes in the appropriate chapters
throughout this book.
Data modeling and design
To derive business insights from data, through business analytics and data science,
the data must be in a usable form. The process for converting data into a usable
form is known as data modeling and design. Whereas we traditionally think of data
modeling as a problem for database administrators (DBAs) and ETL developers,
data modeling can happen almost anywhere in an organization. Firmware engineers
develop the data format of a record for an IoT device, or web application developers
design the JSON response to an API call or a MySQL table schema—these are all
instances of data modeling and design.
Data modeling has become more challenging because of the variety of new data
sources and use cases. For instance, strict normalization doesn’t work well with event
data. Fortunately, a new generation of data tools increases the flexibility of data
models, while retaining logical separations of measures, dimensions, attributes, and
hierarchies. Cloud data warehouses support the ingestion of enormous quantities of
denormalized and semistructured data, while still supporting common data modeling
patterns, such as Kimball, Inmon, and Data Vault. Data processing frameworks
such as Spark can ingest a whole spectrum of data, from flat structured relational
records to raw unstructured text. We discuss these data modeling and transformation
patterns in greater detail in Chapter 8.
With the wide variety of data that engineers must cope with, there is a temptation
to throw up our hands and give up on data modeling. This is a terrible idea with
harrowing consequences, made evident when people murmur of the write once, read
never (WORN) access pattern or refer to a data swamp. Data engineers need to
understand modeling best practices as well as develop the flexibility to apply the
appropriate level and type of modeling to the data source and use case.
Data lineage
As data moves through its lifecycle, how do you know what system affected the data
or what the data is composed of as it gets passed around and transformed? Data
lineage describes the recording of an audit trail of data through its lifecycle, tracking
both the systems that process the data and the upstream data it depends on.
Data lineage helps with error tracking, accountability, and debugging of data and
the systems that process it. It has the obvious benefit of giving an audit trail for the
data lifecycle and helps with compliance. For example, if a user would like their data
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
57

deleted from your systems, having lineage for that data lets you know where that data
is stored and its dependencies.
Data lineage has been around for a long time in larger companies with strict compli‐
ance standards. However, it’s now being more widely adopted in smaller companies
as data management becomes mainstream. We also note that Andy Petrella’s con‐
cept of Data Observability Driven Development (DODD) is closely related to data
lineage. DODD observes data all along its lineage. This process is applied during
development, testing, and finally production to deliver quality and conformity to
expectations.
Data integration and interoperability
Data integration and interoperability is the process of integrating data across tools and
processes. As we move away from a single-stack approach to analytics and toward a
heterogeneous cloud environment in which various tools process data on demand,
integration and interoperability occupy an ever-widening swath of the data engineer’s
job.
Increasingly, integration happens through general-purpose APIs rather than custom
database connections. For example, a data pipeline might pull data from the Sales‐
force API, store it to Amazon S3, call the Snowflake API to load it into a table, call the
API again to run a query, and then export the results to S3 where Spark can consume
them.
All of this activity can be managed with relatively simple Python code that talks to
data systems rather than handling data directly. While the complexity of interacting
with data systems has decreased, the number of systems and the complexity of pipe‐
lines has dramatically increased. Engineers starting from scratch quickly outgrow the
capabilities of bespoke scripting and stumble into the need for orchestration. Orches‐
tration is one of our undercurrents, and we discuss it in detail in “Orchestration” on
page 64.
Data lifecycle management
The advent of data lakes encouraged organizations to ignore data archival and
destruction. Why discard data when you can simply add more storage ad infinitum?
Two changes have encouraged engineers to pay more attention to what happens at the
end of the data engineering lifecycle.
First, data is increasingly stored in the cloud. This means we have pay-as-you-go
storage costs instead of large up-front capital expenditures for an on-premises data
lake. When every byte shows up on a monthly AWS statement, CFOs see opportuni‐
ties for savings. Cloud environments make data archival a relatively straightforward
process. Major cloud vendors offer archival-specific object storage classes that allow
long-term data retention at an extremely low cost, assuming very infrequent access
58
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

