# Software Engineering

Paginas: 91-92

We must point out that orchestration is strictly a batch concept. The streaming
alternative to orchestrated task DAGs is the streaming DAG. Streaming DAGs remain
challenging to build and maintain, but next-generation streaming platforms such as
Pulsar aim to dramatically reduce the engineering and operational burden. We talk
more about these developments in Chapter 8.
Software Engineering
Software engineering has always been a central skill for data engineers. In the early
days of contemporary data engineering (2000–2010), data engineers worked on low-
level frameworks and wrote MapReduce jobs in C, C++, and Java. At the peak of
the big data era (the mid-2010s), engineers started using frameworks that abstracted
away these low-level details.
This abstraction continues today. Cloud data warehouses support powerful transfor‐
mations using SQL semantics; tools like Spark have become more user-friendly,
transitioning away from low-level coding details and toward easy-to-use dataframes.
Despite this abstraction, software engineering is still critical to data engineering. We
want to briefly discuss a few common areas of software engineering that apply to the
data engineering lifecycle.
Core data processing code
Though it has become more abstract and easier to manage, core data processing code
still needs to be written, and it appears throughout the data engineering lifecycle.
Whether in ingestion, transformation, or data serving, data engineers need to be
highly proficient and productive in frameworks and languages such as Spark, SQL, or
Beam; we reject the notion that SQL is not code.
It’s also imperative that a data engineer understand proper code-testing methodolo‐
gies, such as unit, regression, integration, end-to-end, and smoke.
Development of open source frameworks
Many data engineers are heavily involved in developing open source frameworks.
They adopt these frameworks to solve specific problems in the data engineering
lifecycle, and then continue developing the framework code to improve the tools for
their use cases and contribute back to the community.
In the big data era, we saw a Cambrian explosion of data-processing frameworks
inside the Hadoop ecosystem. These tools primarily focused on transforming and
serving parts of the data engineering lifecycle. Data engineering tool speciation has
not ceased or slowed down, but the emphasis has shifted up the ladder of abstraction,
away from direct data processing. This new generation of open source tools assists
engineers in managing, enhancing, connecting, optimizing, and monitoring data.
66
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

For example, Airflow dominated the orchestration space from 2015 until the early
2020s. Now, a new batch of open source competitors (including Prefect, Dagster, and
Metaflow) has sprung up to fix perceived limitations of Airflow, providing better
metadata handling, portability, and dependency management. Where the future of
orchestration goes is anyone’s guess.
Before data engineers begin engineering new internal tools, they would do well to
survey the landscape of publicly available tools. Keep an eye on the total cost of
ownership (TCO) and opportunity cost associated with implementing a tool. There
is a good chance that an open source project already exists to address the problem
they’re looking to solve, and they would do well to collaborate rather than reinventing
the wheel.
Streaming
Streaming data processing is inherently more complicated than batch, and the tools
and paradigms are arguably less mature. As streaming data becomes more pervasive
in every stage of the data engineering lifecycle, data engineers face interesting soft‐
ware engineering problems.
For instance, data processing tasks such as joins that we take for granted in the
batch processing world often become more complicated in real time, requiring more
complex software engineering. Engineers must also write code to apply a variety
of windowing methods. Windowing allows real-time systems to calculate valuable
metrics such as trailing statistics. Engineers have many frameworks to choose from,
including various function platforms (OpenFaaS, AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Func‐
tions) for handling individual events or dedicated stream processors (Spark, Beam,
Flink, or Pulsar) for analyzing streams to support reporting and real-time actions.
Infrastructure as code
Infrastructure as code (IaC) applies software engineering practices to the configura‐
tion and management of infrastructure. The infrastructure management burden of
the big data era has decreased as companies have migrated to managed big data
systems—such as Databricks and Amazon Elastic MapReduce (EMR)—and cloud
data warehouses. When data engineers have to manage their infrastructure in a cloud
environment, they increasingly do this through IaC frameworks rather than manually
spinning up instances and installing software. Several general-purpose and cloud-
platform-specific frameworks allow automated infrastructure deployment based on a
set of specifications. Many of these frameworks can manage cloud services as well as
infrastructure. There is also a notion of IaC with containers and Kubernetes, using
tools like Helm.
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
67

