# Message Queues and Event-Streaming Platforms

Paginas: 202-205

6 Martin Fowler, “How to Move Beyond a Monolithic Data Lake to a Distributed Data Mesh,” Martin‐
Fowler.com, May 20, 2019, https://oreil.ly/TEdJF.
Data sharing can also streamline data pipelines within an organization. Data sharing
allows units of an organization to manage their data and selectively share it with
other units while still allowing individual units to manage their compute and query
costs separately, facilitating data decentralization. This facilitates decentralized data
management patterns such as data mesh.6
Data sharing and data mesh align closely with our philosophy of common architec‐
ture components. Choose common components (see Chapter 3) that allow the simple
and efficient interchange of data and expertise rather than embracing the most
exciting and sophisticated technology.
Third-Party Data Sources
The consumerization of technology means every company is essentially now a
technology company. The consequence is that these companies—and increasingly
government agencies—want to make their data available to their customers and
users, either as part of their service or as a separate subscription. For example, the
US Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes various statistics about the US labor market.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) publishes various data
from its research initiatives. Facebook shares data with businesses that advertise on its
platform.
Why would companies want to make their data available? Data is sticky, and a
flywheel is created by allowing users to integrate and extend their application into a
user’s application. Greater user adoption and usage means more data, which means
users can integrate more data into their applications and data systems. The side effect
is there are now almost infinite sources of third-party data.
Direct third-party data access is commonly done via APIs, through data sharing on
a cloud platform, or through data download. APIs often provide deep integration
capabilities, allowing customers to pull and push data. For example, many CRMs
offer APIs that their users can integrate into their systems and applications. We see
a common workflow to get data from a CRM, blend the CRM data through the
customer scoring model, and then use reverse ETL to send that data back into CRM
for salespeople to contact better-qualified leads.
Message Queues and Event-Streaming Platforms
Event-driven architectures are pervasive in software applications and are poised to
grow their popularity even further. First, message queues and event-streaming plat‐
forms—critical layers in event-driven architectures—are easier to set up and manage
Source System Practical Details
|
177

in a cloud environment. Second, the rise of data apps—applications that directly
integrate real-time analytics—are growing from strength to strength. Event-driven
architectures are ideal in this setting because events can both trigger work in the
application and feed near real-time analytics.
Please note that streaming data (in this case, messages and streams) cuts across
many data engineering lifecycle stages. Unlike an RDBMS, which is often directly
attached to an application, the lines of streaming data are sometimes less clear-cut.
These systems are used as source systems, but they will often cut across the data
engineering lifecycle because of their transient nature. For example, you can use
an event-streaming platform for message passing in an event-driven application, a
source system. The same event-streaming platform can be used in the ingestion and
transformation stage to process data for real-time analytics.
As source systems, message queues and event-streaming platforms are used in
numerous ways, from routing messages between microservices ingesting millions
of events per second of event data from web, mobile, and IoT applications. Let’s look
at message queues and event-streaming platforms a bit more closely.
Message queues
A message queue is a mechanism to asynchronously send data (usually as small
individual messages, in the kilobytes) between discrete systems using a publish and
subscribe model. Data is published to a message queue and is delivered to one or
more subscribers (Figure 5-9). The subscriber acknowledges receipt of the message,
removing it from the queue.
Figure 5-9. A simple message queue
Message queues allow applications and systems to be decoupled from each other and
are widely used in microservices architectures. The message queue buffers messages
to handle transient load spikes and makes messages durable through a distributed
architecture with replication.
Message queues are a critical ingredient for decoupled microservices and event-
driven architectures. Some things to keep in mind with message queues are frequency
of delivery, message ordering, and scalability.
Message ordering and delivery. The order in which messages are created, sent, and
received can significantly impact downstream subscribers. In general, order in
178
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

7 Whether exactly once is possible is a semantical debate. Technically, exactly once delivery is impossible to
guarantee, as illustrated by the Two Generals Problem.
distributed message queues is a tricky problem. Message queues often apply a fuzzy
notion of order and first in, first out (FIFO). Strict FIFO means that if message A is
ingested before message B, message A will always be delivered before message B. In
practice, messages might be published and received out of order, especially in highly
distributed message systems.
For example, Amazon SQS standard queues make the best effort to preserve message
order. SQS also offers FIFO queues, which offer much stronger guarantees at the cost
of extra overhead.
In general, don’t assume that your messages will be delivered in order unless your
message queue technology guarantees it. You typically need to design for out-of-
order message delivery.
Delivery frequency. Messages can be sent exactly once or at least once. If a message
is sent exactly once, then after the subscriber acknowledges the message, the message
disappears and won’t be delivered again.7 Messages sent at least once can be consumed
by multiple subscribers or by the same subscriber more than once. This is great when
duplications or redundancy don’t matter.
Ideally, systems should be idempotent. In an idempotent system, the outcome of
processing a message once is identical to the outcome of processing it multiple times.
This helps to account for a variety of subtle scenarios. For example, even if our system
can guarantee exactly-once delivery, a consumer might fully process a message but
fail right before acknowledging processing. The message will effectively be processed
twice, but an idempotent system handles this scenario gracefully.
Scalability. The most popular message queues utilized in event-driven applications
are horizontally scalable, running across multiple servers. This allows these queues
to scale up and down dynamically, buffer messages when systems fall behind, and
durably store messages for resilience against failure. However, this can create a variety
of complications, as mentioned previously (multiple deliveries and fuzzy ordering).
Event-streaming platforms
In some ways, an event-streaming platform is a continuation of a message queue in
that messages are passed from producers to consumers. As discussed previously in
this chapter, the big difference between messages and streams is that a message queue
is primarily used to route messages with certain delivery guarantees. In contrast, an
event-streaming platform is used to ingest and process data in an ordered log of
Source System Practical Details
|
179

records. In an event-streaming platform, data is retained for a while, and it is possible
to replay messages from a past point in time.
Let’s describe an event related to an event-streaming platform. As mentioned in
Chapter 3, an event is “something that happened, typically a change in the state of
something.” An event has the following features: a key, a value, and a timestamp.
Multiple key-value timestamps might be contained in a single event. For example, an
event for an ecommerce order might look like this:
{
"Key":"Order # 12345",
"Value":"SKU 123, purchase price of $100",
"Timestamp":"2023-01-02 06:01:00"
}
Let’s look at some of the critical characteristics of an event-streaming platform that
you should be aware of as a data engineer.
Topics. In an event-streaming platform, a producer streams events to a topic, a
collection of related events. A topic might contain fraud alerts, customer orders, or
temperature readings from IoT devices, for example. A topic can have zero, one, or
multiple producers and customers on most event-streaming platforms.
Using the preceding event example, a topic might be web orders. Also, let’s send
this topic to a couple of consumers, such as fulfillment and marketing. This is
an excellent example of blurred lines between analytics and an event-driven system.
The fulfillment subscriber will use events to trigger a fulfillment process, while
marketing runs real-time analytics or trains and runs ML models to tune marketing
campaigns (Figure 5-10).
Figure 5-10. An order-processing system generates events (small squares) and publishes
them to the web orders topic. Two subscribers—marketing and fulfillment—pull
events from the topic.
Stream partitions. Stream partitions are subdivisions of a stream into multiple
streams. A good analogy is a multilane freeway. Having multiple lanes allows for
parallelism and higher throughput. Messages are distributed across partitions by
partition key. Messages with the same partition key will always end up in the same
partition.
180
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

