# Reliability and Durability

Paginas: 265-265

comes back online and attempts to backfill the lapsed data loads, will your ingestion
be able to keep up with this sudden influx of backlogged data?
Another thing to consider is your ability to handle bursty data ingestion. Data gener‐
ation rarely happens at a constant rate and often ebbs and flows. Built-in buffering
is required to collect events during rate spikes to prevent data from getting lost.
Buffering bridges the time while the system scales and allows storage systems to
accommodate bursts even in a dynamically scalable system.
Whenever possible, use managed services that handle the throughput scaling for you.
While you can manually accomplish these tasks by adding more servers, shards, or
workers, often this isn’t value-added work, and there’s a good chance you’ll miss
something. Much of this heavy lifting is now automated. Don’t reinvent the data
ingestion wheel if you don’t have to.
Reliability and Durability
Reliability and durability are vital in the ingestion stages of data pipelines. Reliability
entails high uptime and proper failover for ingestion systems. Durability entails
making sure that data isn’t lost or corrupted.
Some data sources (e.g., IoT devices and caches) may not retain data if it is not
correctly ingested. Once lost, it is gone for good. In this sense, the reliability of
ingestion systems leads directly to the durability of generated data. If data is ingested,
downstream processes can theoretically run late if they break temporarily.
Our advice is to evaluate the risks and build an appropriate level of redundancy and
self-healing based on the impact and cost of losing data. Reliability and durability
have both direct and indirect costs. For example, will your ingestion process continue
if an AWS zone goes down? How about a whole region? How about the power grid
or the internet? Of course, nothing is free. How much will this cost you? You might
be able to build a highly redundant system and have a team on call 24 hours a day
to handle outages. This also means your cloud and labor costs become prohibitive
(direct costs), and the ongoing work takes a significant toll on your team (indirect
costs). There’s no single correct answer, and you need to evaluate the costs and
benefits of your reliability and durability decisions.
Don’t assume that you can build a system that will reliably and durably ingest data in
every possible scenario. Even the nearly infinite budget of the US federal government
can’t guarantee this. In many extreme scenarios, ingesting data actually won’t matter.
There will be little to ingest if the internet goes down, even if you build multiple air-
gapped data centers in underground bunkers with independent power. Continually
evaluate the trade-offs and costs of reliability and durability.
240
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

