# Dark Matter Data and the Rise of...Spreadsheets?!

Paginas: 413-413

The Tight Feedback Between Applications and ML
Another area we’re excited about is the fusion of applications and ML. Today, appli‐
cations and ML are disjointed systems, like applications and analytics. Software
engineers do their thing over here, data scientists and ML engineers do their thing
over there.
ML is well-suited for scenarios where data is generated at such a high rate and
volume that humans cannot feasibly process it by hand. As data sizes and velocity
grow, this applies to every scenario. High volumes of fast-moving data, coupled with
sophisticated workflows and actions, are candidates for ML. As data feedback loops
become shorter, we expect most applications to integrate ML. As data moves more
quickly, the feedback loop between applications and ML will tighten. The applications
in the live data stack are intelligent and able to adapt in real time to changes in the
data. This creates a cycle of ever-smarter applications and increasing business value.
Dark Matter Data and the Rise of...Spreadsheets?!
We’ve talked about fast-moving data and how feedback loops will shrink as applica‐
tions, data, and ML work more closely together. This section might seem odd, but we
need to address something that’s widely ignored in today’s data world, especially by
engineers.
What’s the most widely used data platform? It’s the humble spreadsheet. Depending
on the estimates you read, the user base of spreadsheets is between 700 million and
2 billion people. Spreadsheets are the dark matter of the data world. A good deal of
data analytics runs in spreadsheets and never makes its way into the sophisticated
data systems that we describe in this book. In many organizations, spreadsheets
handle financial reporting, supply-chain analytics, and even CRM.
At heart, what is a spreadsheet? A spreadsheet is an interactive data application that
supports complex analytics. Unlike purely code-based tools such as pandas (Python
Data Analysis Library), spreadsheets are accessible to a whole spectrum of users,
ranging from those who just know how to open files and look at reports to power
users who can script sophisticated procedural data processing. So far, BI tools have
failed to bring comparable interactivity to databases. Users who interact with the
UI are typically limited to slicing and dicing data within certain guardrails, not
general-purpose programmable analytics.
We predict that a new class of tools will emerge that combines the interactive analyt‐
ics capabilities of a spreadsheet with the backend power of cloud OLAP systems.
Indeed, some candidates are already in the running. The ultimate winner in this
product category may continue to use spreadsheet paradigms, or may define entirely
new interface idioms for interacting with data.
388
|
Chapter 11: The Future of Data Engineering

