# Today Versus the Future: Immutable Versus Transitory Technologies

Paginas: 145-146

2 J. R. Storment and Mike Fuller, Cloud FinOps (Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly, 2019), 6, https://oreil.ly/RvRvX.
appear at an ever-faster rate. Does the expertise you’ve built up on data stack A
translate to the next wave? Or are you able to swap out components of data stack
A and buy yourself some time and options?
The first step to minimizing opportunity cost is evaluating it with eyes wide open.
We’ve seen countless data teams get stuck with technologies that seemed good at the
time and are either not flexible for future growth or simply obsolete. Inflexible data
technologies are a lot like bear traps. They’re easy to get into and extremely painful to
escape.
FinOps
We already touched on FinOps in “Principle 9: Embrace FinOps” on page 85. As
we’ve discussed, typical cloud spending is inherently opex: companies pay for services
to run critical data processes rather than making up-front purchases and clawing
back value over time. The goal of FinOps is to fully operationalize financial account‐
ability and business value by applying the DevOps-like practices of monitoring and
dynamically adjusting systems.
In this chapter, we want to emphasize one thing about FinOps that is well embodied
in this quote:2
If it seems that FinOps is about saving money, then think again. FinOps is about
making money. Cloud spend can drive more revenue, signal customer base growth,
enable more product and feature release velocity, or even help shut down a data center.
In our setting of data engineering, the ability to iterate quickly and scale dynamically
is invaluable for creating business value. This is one of the major motivations for
shifting data workloads to the cloud.
Today Versus the Future: Immutable Versus Transitory
Technologies
In an exciting domain like data engineering, it’s all too easy to focus on a rapidly
evolving future while ignoring the concrete needs of the present. The intention to
build a better future is noble but often leads to overarchitecting and overengineering.
Tooling chosen for the future may be stale and out-of-date when this future arrives;
the future frequently looks little like what we envisioned years before.
As many life coaches would tell you, focus on the present. You should choose the
best technology for the moment and near future, but in a way that supports future
unknowns and evolution. Ask yourself: where are you today, and what are your goals
120
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

for the future? Your answers to these questions should inform your decisions about
your architecture and thus the technologies used within that architecture. This is
done by understanding what is likely to change and what tends to stay the same.
We have two classes of tools to consider: immutable and transitory. Immutable tech‐
nologies might be components that underpin the cloud or languages and paradigms
that have stood the test of time. In the cloud, examples of immutable technologies are
object storage, networking, servers, and security. Object storage such as Amazon S3
and Azure Blob Storage will be around from today until the end of the decade, and
probably much longer. Storing your data in object storage is a wise choice. Object
storage continues to improve in various ways and constantly offers new options, but
your data will be safe and usable in object storage regardless of the rapid evolution of
technology as a whole.
For languages, SQL and bash have been around for many decades, and we don’t see
them disappearing anytime soon. Immutable technologies benefit from the Lindy
effect: the longer a technology has been established, the longer it will be used.
Think of the power grid, relational databases, the C programming language, or the
x86 processor architecture. We suggest applying the Lindy effect as a litmus test to
determine whether a technology is potentially immutable.
Transitory technologies are those that come and go. The typical trajectory begins
with a lot of hype, followed by meteoric growth in popularity, then a slow descent
into obscurity. The JavaScript frontend landscape is a classic example. How many
JavaScript frontend frameworks have come and gone between 2010 and 2020? Back‐
bone.js, Ember.js, and Knockout were popular in the early 2010s, and React and
Vue.js have massive mindshare today. What’s the popular frontend JavaScript frame‐
work three years from now? Who knows.
New well-funded entrants and open source projects arrive on the data front every
day. Every vendor will say their product will change the industry and “make the
world a better place”. Most of these companies and projects don’t get long-term trac‐
tion and fade slowly into obscurity. Top VCs are making big-money bets, knowing
that most of their data-tooling investments will fail. If VCs pouring millions (or
billions) into data-tooling investments can’t get it right, how can you possibly know
which technologies to invest in for your data architecture? It’s hard. Just consider the
number of technologies in Matt Turck’s (in)famous depictions of the ML, AI, and
data (MAD) landscape that we introduced in Chapter 1 (Figure 4-1).
Even relatively successful technologies often fade into obscurity quickly, after a few
years of rapid adoption, a victim of their success. For instance, in the early 2010s,
Hive was met with rapid uptake because it allowed both analysts and engineers to
query massive datasets without coding complex MapReduce jobs by hand. Inspired
Today Versus the Future: Immutable Versus Transitory Technologies
|
121

