# Open Source Software

Paginas: 158-161

better solution than something already available? Either decision comes down to
TCO, TOCO, and whether the solution provides a competitive advantage to your
organization.
If you’ve caught on to a theme in the book so far, it’s that we suggest investing in
building and customizing when doing so will provide a competitive advantage for your
business. Otherwise, stand on the shoulders of giants and use what’s already available
in the market. Given the number of open source and paid services—both of which
may have communities of volunteers or highly paid teams of amazing engineers—
you’re foolish to build everything yourself.
As we often ask, “When you need new tires for your car, do you get the raw materials,
create the tires from scratch, and install them yourself?” Like most people, you’re
probably buying tires and having someone install them. The same argument applies
to build versus buy. We’ve seen teams that have built their databases from scratch. A
simple open source RDBMS would have served their needs much better upon closer
inspection. Imagine the amount of time and money invested in this homegrown
database. Talk about low ROI for TCO and opportunity cost.
This is where the distinction between the type A and type B data engineer comes
in handy. As we pointed out earlier, type A and type B roles are often embodied in
the same engineer, especially in a small organization. Whenever possible, lean toward
type A behavior; avoid undifferentiated heavy lifting and embrace abstraction. Use
open source frameworks, or if this is too much trouble, look at buying a suitable
managed or proprietary solution. Plenty of great modular services are available to
choose from in either case.
The shifting reality of how companies adopt software is worth mentioning. Whereas
in the past, IT used to make most of the software purchase and adoption decisions
in a top-down manner, these days, the trend is for bottom-up software adoption in
a company, driven by developers, data engineers, data scientists, and other technical
roles. Technology adoption within companies is becoming an organic, continuous
process.
Let’s look at some options for open source and proprietary solutions.
Open Source Software
Open source software (OSS) is a software distribution model in which software, and
the underlying codebase, is made available for general use, typically under specific
licensing terms. Often OSS is created and maintained by a distributed team of
collaborators. OSS is free to use, change, and distribute most of the time, but with
specific caveats. For example, many licenses require that the source code of open
source–derived software be included when the software is distributed.
Build Versus Buy
|
133

The motivations for creating and maintaining OSS vary. Sometimes OSS is organic,
springing from the mind of an individual or a small team that creates a novel solution
and chooses to release it into the wild for public use. Other times, a company may
make a specific tool or technology available to the public under an OSS license.
OSS has two main flavors: community managed and commercial OSS.
Community-managed OSS
OSS projects succeed with a strong community and vibrant user base. Community-
managed OSS is a prevalent path for OSS projects. The community opens up high
rates of innovations and contributions from developers worldwide with popular OSS
projects.
The following are factors to consider with a community-managed OSS project:
Mindshare
Avoid adopting OSS projects that don’t have traction and popularity. Look at the
number of GitHub stars, forks, and commit volume and recency. Another thing
to pay attention to is community activity on related chat groups and forums.
Does the project have a strong sense of community? A strong community creates
a virtuous cycle of strong adoption. It also means that you’ll have an easier
time getting technical assistance and finding talent qualified to work with the
framework.
Maturity
How long has the project been around, how active is it today, and how usable are
people finding it in production? A project’s maturity indicates that people find it
useful and are willing to incorporate it into their production workflows.
Troubleshooting
How will you have to handle problems if they arise? Are you on your own to
troubleshoot issues, or can the community help you solve your problem?
Project management
Look at Git issues and the way they’re addressed. Are they addressed quickly? If
so, what’s the process to submit an issue and get it resolved?
Team
Is a company sponsoring the OSS project? Who are the core contributors?
Developer relations and community management
What is the project doing to encourage uptake and adoption? Is there a vibrant
chat community (e.g., in Slack) that provides encouragement and support?
134
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

Contributing
Does the project encourage and accept pull requests? What are the process and
timelines for pull requests to be accepted and included in main codebase?
Roadmap
Is there a project roadmap? If so, is it clear and transparent?
Self-hosting and maintenance
Do you have the resources to host and maintain the OSS solution? If so, what’s
the TCO and TOCO versus buying a managed service from the OSS vendor?
Giving back to the community
If you like the project and are actively using it, consider investing in it. You can
contribute to the codebase, help fix issues, and give advice in the community
forums and chats. If the project allows donations, consider making one. Many
OSS projects are essentially community-service projects, and the maintainers
often have full-time jobs in addition to helping with the OSS project. Sadly, it’s
often a labor of love that doesn’t afford the maintainer a living wage. If you can
afford to donate, please do so.
Commercial OSS
Sometimes OSS has some drawbacks. Namely, you have to host and maintain the
solution in your environment. This may be trivial or extremely complicated and
cumbersome, depending on the OSS application. Commercial vendors try to solve
this management headache by hosting and managing the OSS solution for you, typi‐
cally as a cloud SaaS offering. Examples of such vendors include Databricks (Spark),
Confluent (Kafka), DBT Labs (dbt), and there are many, many others.
This model is called commercial OSS (COSS). Typically, a vendor will offer the “core”
of the OSS for free while charging for enhancements, curated code distributions, or
fully managed services.
A vendor is often affiliated with the community OSS project. As an OSS project
becomes more popular, the maintainers may create a separate business for a managed
version of the OSS. This typically becomes a cloud SaaS platform built around a
managed version of the open source code. This is a widespread trend: an OSS project
becomes popular, an affiliated company raises truckloads of venture capital (VC)
money to commercialize the OSS project, and the company scales as a fast-moving
rocket ship.
At this point, the data engineer has two options. You can continue using the
community-managed OSS version, which you need to continue maintaining on your
own (updates, server/container maintenance, pull requests for bug fixes, etc.). Or, you
can pay the vendor and let it take care of the administrative management of the COSS
product.
Build Versus Buy
|
135

The following are factors to consider with a commercial OSS project:
Value
Is the vendor offering a better value than if you managed the OSS technology
yourself? Some vendors will add many bells and whistles to their managed
offerings that aren’t available in the community OSS version. Are these additions
compelling to you?
Delivery model
How do you access the service? Is the product available via download, API, or
web/mobile UI? Be sure you can easily access the initial version and subsequent
releases.
Support
Support cannot be understated, and it’s often opaque to the buyer. What is the
support model for the product, and is there an extra cost for support? Frequently,
vendors will sell support for an additional fee. Be sure you clearly understand
the costs of obtaining support. Also, understand what is covered in support,
and what is not covered. Anything that’s not covered by support will be your
responsibility to own and manage.
Releases and bug fixes
Is the vendor transparent about the release schedule, improvements, and bug
fixes? Are these updates easily available to you?
Sales cycle and pricing
Often a vendor will offer on-demand pricing, especially for a SaaS product,
and offer you a discount if you commit to an extended agreement. Be sure to
understand the trade-offs of paying as you go versus paying up front. Is it worth
paying a lump sum, or is your money better spent elsewhere?
Company finances
Is the company viable? If the company has raised VC funds, you can check their
funding on sites like Crunchbase. How much runway does the company have,
and will it still be in business in a couple of years?
Logos versus revenue
Is the company focused on growing the number of customers (logos), or is it
trying to grow revenue? You may be surprised by the number of companies
primarily concerned with growing their customer count, GitHub stars, or Slack
channel membership without the revenue to establish sound finances.
Community support
Is the company truly supporting the community version of the OSS project? How
much is the company contributing to the community OSS codebase? Controver‐
sies have arisen with certain vendors co-opting OSS projects and subsequently
136
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

