# On Premises

Paginas: 148-148

“bear traps.” Go into a new technology with eyes wide open, knowing the project
might get abandoned, the company may not be viable, or the technology simply isn’t a
good fit any longer.
Location
Companies now have numerous options when deciding where to run their technol‐
ogy stacks. A slow shift toward the cloud culminates in a veritable stampede of
companies spinning up workloads on AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform
(GCP). In the last decade, many CTOs have come to view their decisions around
technology hosting as having existential significance for their organizations. If they
move too slowly, they risk being left behind by their more agile competition; on the
other hand, a poorly planned cloud migration could lead to technological failure and
catastrophic costs.
Let’s look at the principal places to run your technology stack: on premises, the cloud,
hybrid cloud, and multicloud.
On Premises
While new startups are increasingly born in the cloud, on-premises systems are
still the default for established companies. Essentially, these companies own their
hardware, which may live in data centers they own or in leased colocation space.
In either case, companies are operationally responsible for their hardware and the
software that runs on it. If hardware fails, they have to repair or replace it. They also
have to manage upgrade cycles every few years as new, updated hardware is released
and older hardware ages and becomes less reliable. They must ensure that they have
enough hardware to handle peaks; for an online retailer, this means hosting enough
capacity to handle the load spikes of Black Friday. For data engineers in charge of
on-premises systems, this means buying large-enough systems to allow good perfor‐
mance for peak load and large jobs without overbuying and overspending.
On the one hand, established companies have established operational practices that
have served them well. Suppose a company that relies on information technology has
been in business for some time. This means it has managed to juggle the cost and
personnel requirements of running its hardware, managing software environments,
deploying code from dev teams, and running databases and big data systems.
On the other hand, established companies see their younger, more agile competition
scaling rapidly and taking advantage of cloud-managed services. They also see estab‐
lished competitors making forays into the cloud, allowing them to temporarily scale
up enormous computing power for massive data jobs or the Black Friday shopping
spike.
Location
|
123

