# Types of Time

Paginas: 189-189

queue. This message is then ingested by a service that determines whether the furnace
should be turned on or off. This service sends a message to a furnace controller that
takes the appropriate action. Once the message is received, and the action is taken,
the message is removed from the message queue.
By contrast, a stream is an append-only log of event records. (Streams are ingested
and stored in event-streaming platforms, which we discuss at greater length in “Mes‐
sages and Streams” on page 163.) As events occur, they are accumulated in an ordered
sequence (Figure 5-5); a timestamp or an ID might order events. (Note that events
aren’t always delivered in exact order because of the subtleties of distributed systems.)
Figure 5-5. A stream, which is an ordered append-only log of records
You’ll use streams when you care about what happened over many events. Because
of the append-only nature of streams, records in a stream are persisted over a long
retention window—often weeks or months—allowing for complex operations on
records such as aggregations on multiple records or the ability to rewind to a point in
time within the stream.
It’s worth noting that systems that process streams can process messages, and stream‐
ing platforms are frequently used for message passing. We often accumulate messages
in streams when we want to perform message analytics. In our IoT example, the
temperature readings that trigger the furnace to turn on or off might also be later
analyzed to determine temperature trends and statistics.
Types of Time
While time is an essential consideration for all data ingestion, it becomes that much
more critical and subtle in the context of streaming, where we view data as continu‐
ous and expect to consume it shortly after it is produced. Let’s look at the key types
of time you’ll run into when ingesting data: the time that the event is generated, when
it’s ingested and processed, and how long processing took (Figure 5-6).
164
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

