# Conclusion

Paginas: 359-359

repository and CI/CD pipeline used by the analysts and data scientists. This is a big
change in the role of a data engineer, who would historically build and manage the
underlying infrastructure and create the data transformations. As data tools lower
the barriers to entry and become more democratized across data teams, it will be
interesting to see how the workflows of data teams change.
Using a GUI-based low-code tool, you’ll get useful visualizations of the transforma‐
tion workflow. You still need to understand what’s going on under the hood. These
GUI-based transformation tools will often generate SQL or some other language
behind the scenes. While the point of a low-code tool is to alleviate the need to
be involved in low-level details, understanding the code behind the scenes will help
with debugging and performance optimization. Blindly assuming that the tool is
generating performant code is a mistake.
We suggest that data engineers pay particular attention to software engineering best
practices at the query and transformation stage. While it’s tempting to simply throw
more processing resources at a dataset, knowing how to write clean, performant code
is a much better approach.
Conclusion
Transformations sit at the heart of data pipelines. It’s critical to keep in mind the
purpose of transformations. Ultimately, engineers are not hired to play with the latest
technological toys but to serve their customers. Transformations are where data adds
value and ROI to the business.
Our opinion is that it is possible to adopt exciting transformation technologies and
serve stakeholders. Chapter 11 talks about the live data stack, essentially reconfigur‐
ing the data stack around streaming data ingestion and bringing transformation
workflows closer to the source system applications themselves. Engineering teams
that think about real-time data as the technology for the sake of technology will
repeat the mistakes of the big data era. But in reality, the majority of organizations
that we work with have a business use case that would benefit from streaming data.
Identifying these use cases and focusing on the value before choosing technologies
and complex systems is key.
As we head into the serving stage of the data engineering lifecycle in Chapter 9,
reflect on technology as a tool for realizing organizational goals. If you’re a working
data engineer, think about how improvements in transformation systems could help
you to serve your end customers better. If you’re just embarking on a path toward
data engineering, think about the kinds of business problems you’re interested in
solving with technology.
334
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

