# DataOps

Paginas: 209-209

Data Management
Data management of source systems is challenging for data engineers. In most cases,
you will have only peripheral control—if any control at all—over source systems and
the data they produce. To the extent possible, you should understand the way data
is managed in source systems since this will directly influence how you ingest, store,
and transform the data.
Here are some areas to consider:
Data governance
Are upstream data and systems governed in a reliable, easy-to-understand fash‐
ion? Who manages the data?
Data quality
How do you ensure data quality and integrity in upstream systems? Work with
source system teams to set expectations on data and communication.
Schema
Expect that upstream schemas will change. Where possible, collaborate with
source system teams to be notified of looming schema changes.
Master data management
Is the creation of upstream records controlled by a master data management
practice or system?
Privacy and ethics
Do you have access to raw data, or will the data be obfuscated? What are the
implications of the source data? How long is it retained? Does it shift locations
based on retention policies?
Regulatory
Based upon regulations, are you supposed to access the data?
DataOps
Operational excellence—DevOps, DataOps, MLOps, XOps—should extend up and
down the entire stack and support the data engineering and lifecycle. While this is
ideal, it’s often not fully realized.
Because you’re working with stakeholders who control both the source systems and
the data they produce, you need to ensure that you can observe and monitor the
uptime and usage of the source systems and respond when incidents occur. For
example, when the application database you depend on for CDC exceeds its I/O
capacity and needs to be rescaled, how will that affect your ability to receive data from
this system? Will you be able to access the data, or will it be unavailable until the
database is rescaled? How will this affect reports? In another example, if the software
184
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

