# Compression: gzip, bzip2, Snappy, Etc.

Paginas: 421-423

offer major storage engine configuration options (columnar versus row-based stor‐
age) that dramatically affect database behavior.
Typically, the storage engine is a separate software layer from the query engine.
The storage engine manages all aspects of how data is stored on a disk, including
serialization, the physical arrangement of data, and indexes.
Storage engines have seen significant innovation in the 2000s and 2010s. While stor‐
age engines in the past were optimized for direct access to spinning disks, modern
storage engines are much better optimized to support the performance characteristics
of SSDs. Storage engines also offer improved support for modern types and data
structures, such as variable-length strings, arrays, and nested data.
Another major change in storage engines is a shift toward columnar storage for
analytics and data warehouse applications. SQL Server, PostgreSQL, and MySQL offer
robust columnar storage support.
Compression: gzip, bzip2, Snappy, Etc.
The math behind compression algorithms is complex, but the basic idea is easy to
understand: compression algorithms look for redundancy and repetition in data,
then reencode data to reduce redundancy. When we want to read the raw data, we
decompress it by reversing the algorithm and putting the redundancy back in.
For example, you’ve noticed that certain words appear repeatedly in reading this
book. Running some quick analytics on the text, you could identify the words that
occur most frequently and create shortened tokens for these words. To compress, you
would replace common words with their tokens; to decompress, you would replace
the tokens with their respective words.
Perhaps we could use this naive technique to realize a compression ratio of 2:1 or
more. Compression algorithms utilize more sophisticated mathematical techniques to
identify and remove redundancy; they can often realize compression ratios of 10:1 on
text data.
Note that we’re talking about lossless compression algorithms. Decompressing data
encoded with a lossless algorithm recovers a bit-for-bit exact copy of the original
data. Lossy compression algorithms for audio, images, and video aim for sensory fidel‐
ity; decompression recovers something that sounds like or looks like the original but
is not an exact copy. Data engineers might deal with lossy compression algorithms
in media processing pipelines but not in serialization for analytics, where exact data
fidelity is required.
396
|
Appendix A: Serialization and Compression Technical Details

Traditional compression engines such as gzip and bzip2 compress text data extremely
well; they are frequently applied to JSON, JSONL, XML, CSV, and other text-based
data formats. Engineers have created a new generation of compression algorithms
that prioritize speed and CPU efficiency over compression ratio in recent years.
Major examples are Snappy, Zstandard, LZFSE, and LZ4. These algorithms are fre‐
quently used to compress data in data lakes or columnar databases to optimize for
fast query performance.
Serialization and Compression Technical Details
|
397


