# Convergence, Next-Generation Data Lakes, and the Data Platform

Paginas: 127-127

transformed, you have access to nearly unlimited computing power by spinning up a
cluster on demand, and you can pick your favorite data-processing technology for the
task at hand—MapReduce, Spark, Ray, Presto, Hive, etc.
Despite the promise and hype, data lake 1.0 had serious shortcomings. The data
lake became a dumping ground; terms such as data swamp, dark data, and WORN
were coined as once-promising data projects failed. Data grew to unmanageable
sizes, with little in the way of schema management, data cataloging, and discovery
tools. In addition, the original data lake concept was essentially write-only, creating
huge headaches with the arrival of regulations such as GDPR that required targeted
deletion of user records.
Processing data was also challenging. Relatively banal data transformations such as
joins were a huge headache to code as MapReduce jobs. Later frameworks such as
Pig and Hive somewhat improved the situation for data processing but did little
to address the basic problems of data management. Simple data manipulation lan‐
guage (DML) operations common in SQL—deleting or updating rows—were painful
to implement, generally achieved by creating entirely new tables. While big data
engineers radiated a particular disdain for their counterparts in data warehousing,
the latter could point out that data warehouses provided basic data management
capabilities out of the box, and that SQL was an efficient tool for writing complex,
performant queries and transformations.
Data lake 1.0 also failed to deliver on another core promise of the big data movement.
Open source software in the Apache ecosystem was touted as a means to avoid
multimillion-dollar contracts for proprietary MPP systems. Cheap, off-the-shelf
hardware would replace custom vendor solutions. In reality, big data costs ballooned
as the complexities of managing Hadoop clusters forced companies to hire large
teams of engineers at high salaries. Companies often chose to purchase licensed,
customized versions of Hadoop from vendors to avoid the exposed wires and sharp
edges of the raw Apache codebase and acquire a set of scaffolding tools to make
Hadoop more user-friendly. Even companies that avoided managing Hadoop clusters
using cloud storage had to spend big on talent to write MapReduce jobs.
We should be careful not to understate the utility and power of first-generation
data lakes. Many organizations found significant value in data lakes—especially huge,
heavily data-focused Silicon Valley tech companies like Netflix and Facebook. These
companies had the resources to build successful data practices and create their cus‐
tom Hadoop-based tools and enhancements. But for many organizations, data lakes
turned into an internal superfund site of waste, disappointment, and spiraling costs.
Convergence, Next-Generation Data Lakes, and the Data Platform
In response to the limitations of first-generation data lakes, various players have
sought to enhance the concept to fully realize its promise. For example, Databricks
102
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

