# Principle 7: Make Reversible Decisions

Paginas: 108-108

12 Fowler, “Who Needs an Architect?”
1. Many small teams engineer a large, complex system. Each team is tasked with
1.
engineering, maintaining, and improving some system components.
2. These teams publish the abstract details of their components to other teams
2.
via API definitions, message schemas, etc. Teams need not concern themselves
with other teams’ components; they simply use the published API or message
specifications to call these components. They iterate their part to improve their
performance and capabilities over time. They might also publish new capabilities
as they are added or request new stuff from other teams. Again, the latter hap‐
pens without teams needing to worry about the internal technical details of the
requested features. Teams work together through loosely coupled communication.
3. As a consequence of characteristic 2, each team can rapidly evolve and improve
3.
its component independently of the work of other teams.
4. Specifically, characteristic 3 implies that teams can release updates to their com‐
4.
ponents with minimal downtime. Teams release continuously during regular
working hours to make code changes and test them.
Loose coupling of both technology and human systems will allow your data engineer‐
ing teams to more efficiently collaborate with one another and with other parts of the
company. This principle also directly facilitates principle 7.
Principle 7: Make Reversible Decisions
The data landscape is changing rapidly. Today’s hot technology or stack is tomorrow’s
afterthought. Popular opinion shifts quickly. You should aim for reversible decisions,
as these tend to simplify your architecture and keep it agile.
As Fowler wrote, “One of an architect’s most important tasks is to remove architec‐
ture by finding ways to eliminate irreversibility in software designs.”12 What was true
when Fowler wrote this in 2003 is just as accurate today.
As we said previously, Bezos refers to reversible decisions as “two-way doors.” As he
says, “If you walk through and don’t like what you see on the other side, you can’t
get back to before. We can call these Type 1 decisions. But most decisions aren’t
like that—they are changeable, reversible—they’re two-way doors.” Aim for two-way
doors whenever possible.
Given the pace of change—and the decoupling/modularization of technologies across
your data architecture—always strive to pick the best-of-breed solutions that work for
today. Also, be prepared to upgrade or adopt better practices as the landscape evolves.
Principles of Good Data Architecture
|
83

