# Streaming Transformations and Processing

Paginas: 351-353

A closely related concept is the notion of query pushdown. Suppose I wanted to
query data from Snowflake, join data from a MySQL database, and filter the results.
Query pushdown aims to move as much work as possible to the source databases.
The engine might look for ways to push filtering predicates into the queries on the
source systems. This serves two purposes: first, it offloads computation from the
virtualization layer, taking advantage of the query performance of the source. Second,
it potentially reduces the quantity of data that must push across the network, a critical
bottleneck for virtualization performance.
Data virtualization is a good solution for organizations with data stored across vari‐
ous data sources. However, data virtualization should not be used haphazardly. For
example, virtualizing a production MySQL database doesn’t solve the core problem of
analytics queries adversely impacting the production system—because Trino does not
store data internally, it will pull from MySQL every time it runs a query.
Alternatively, data virtualization can be used as a component of data ingestion and
processing pipelines. For instance, Trino might be used to select from MySQL once
a day at midnight when the load on the production system is low. Results could be
saved into S3 for consumption by downstream transformations and daily queries,
protecting MySQL from direct analytics queries.
Data virtualization can be viewed as a tool that expands the data lake to many
more sources by abstracting away barriers used to silo data between organizational
units. An organization can store frequently accessed, transformed data in S3 and
virtualize access between various parts of the company. This fits closely with the
notion of a data mesh (discussed in Chapter 3), wherein small teams are responsible
for preparing their data for analytics and sharing it with the rest of the company;
virtualization can serve as a critical access layer for practical sharing.
Streaming Transformations and Processing
We’ve already discussed stream processing in the context of queries. The difference
between streaming transformations and streaming queries is subtle and warrants
more explanation.
Basics
Streaming queries run dynamically to present a current view of data, as dis‐
cussed previously. Streaming transformations aim to prepare data for downstream
consumption.
For instance, a data engineering team may have an incoming stream carrying events
from an IoT source. These IoT events carry a device ID and event data. We wish to
dynamically enrich these events with other device metadata, which is stored in a sep‐
arate database. The stream-processing engine queries a separate database containing
326
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

19 For a detailed application of the concept of a streaming DAG, see “Why We Moved from Apache Kafka to
Apache Pulsar” by Simba Khadder, StreamNative blog, April 21, 2020, https://oreil.ly/Rxfko.
this metadata by device ID, generates new events with the added data, and passes it
on to another stream. Live queries and triggered metrics run on this enriched stream
(see Figure 8-20).
Figure 8-20. An incoming stream is carried by a streaming event platform and passed
into a stream processor
Transformations and queries are a continuum
The line between transformations and queries is also blurry in batch processing, but
the differences become even more subtle in the domain of streaming. For example, if
we dynamically compute roll-up statistics on windows, and then send the output to a
target stream, is this a transformation or a query?
Maybe we will eventually adopt new terminology for stream processing that better
represents real-world use cases. For now, we will do our best with the terminology we
have.
Streaming DAGs
One interesting notion closely related to stream enrichment and joins is the streaming
DAG.19 We first talked about this idea in our discussion of orchestration in Chapter 2.
Orchestration is inherently a batch concept, but what if we wanted to enrich, merge,
and split multiple streams in real time?
Let’s take a simple example where streaming DAG would be useful. Suppose that we
want to combine website clickstream data with IoT data. This will allow us to get a
unified view of user activity by combining IoT events with clicks. Furthermore, each
data stream needs to be preprocessed into a standard format (see Figure 8-21).
Transformations
|
327

Figure 8-21. A simple streaming DAG
This has long been possible by combining a streaming store (e.g., Kafka) with a
stream processor (e.g., Flink). Creating the DAG amounted to building a complex
Rube Goldberg machine, with numerous topics and processing jobs connected.
Pulsar dramatically simplifies this process by treating DAGs as a core streaming
abstraction. Rather than managing flows across several systems, engineers can define
their streaming DAGs as code inside a single system.
Micro-batch versus true streaming
A long-running battle has been ongoing between micro-batch and true streaming
approaches. Fundamentally, it’s important to understand your use case, the perfor‐
mance requirements, and the performance capabilities of the framework in question.
Micro-batching is a way to take a batch-oriented framework and apply it in a stream‐
ing situation. A micro-batch might run anywhere from every two minutes to every
second. Some micro-batch frameworks (e.g., Apache Spark Streaming) are designed
for this use case and will perform well with appropriately allocated resources at a
high batch frequency. (In truth, DBAs and engineers have long used micro-batching
with more traditional databases; this often led to horrific performance and resource
consumption.)
True streaming systems (e.g., Beam and Flink) are designed to process one event at a
time. However, this comes with significant overhead. Also, it’s important to note that
even in these true streaming systems, many processes will still occur in batches. A
328
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

