# Cover

Paginas: 1-6

Joe Reis &
Matt Housley
Fundamentals
of Data
Engineering
Plan and Build
Robust Data Systems

DATA
“The world of data has been
evolving for a while now. First
there were designers. Then
database administrators.
Then CIOs. Then data
architects. This book signals
the next step in the evolution
and maturity of the industry. It
is a must read for anyone who
takes their profession and
career honestly.”
—Bill Inmon
creator of the data warehouse
“Fundamentals of Data
Engineering is a great
introduction to the business
of moving, processing, and
handling data. I’d highly
recommend it for anyone
wanting to get up to speed
in data engineering or
analytics, or for existing
practitioners who want
to fill in any gaps in their
understanding.”
—Jordan Tigani
founder and CEO, MotherDuck,
and founding engineer and
cocreator of BigQuery
Fundamentals of Data Engineering
US $69.99
CAN $87.99
ISBN: 978-1-098-10830-4
Twitter: @oreillymedia
linkedin.com/company/oreilly-media
youtube.com/oreillymedia
Data engineering has grown rapidly in the past decade,
leaving many software engineers, data scientists, and
analysts looking for a comprehensive view of this practice.
With this practical book, you’ll learn how to plan and
build systems to serve the needs of your organization and
customers by evaluating the best technologies available
through the framework of the data engineering lifecycle.
Authors Joe Reis and Matt Housley walk you through the data
engineering lifecycle and show you how to stitch together
a variety of cloud technologies to serve the needs of down­
stream data consumers. You’ll understand how to apply the
concepts of data generation, ingestion, orchestration, trans­
formation, storage, and governance that are critical in any
data environment regardless of the underlying technology.
This book will help you:
•	 Get a concise overview of the entire data engineering
landscape
•	 Assess data engineering problems using an end-to-end
framework of best practices
•	 Cut through marketing hype when choosing data
technologies, architecture, and processes
•	 Use the data engineering lifecycle to design and build a
robust architecture
•	 Incorporate data governance and security across the data
engineering lifecycle
Joe Reis is a “recovering data scientist,” and a data engineer and
architect.
Matt Housley is a data engineering consultant and cloud specialist.

Praise for Fundamentals of Data Engineering
The world of data has been evolving for a while now. First there were designers. Then
database administrators. Then CIOs. Then data architects. This book signals the next step
in the evolution and maturity of the industry. It is a must read for anyone who takes their
profession and career honestly.
—Bill Inmon, creator of the data warehouse
Fundamentals of Data Engineering is a great introduction to the business of moving,
processing, and handling data. It explains the taxonomy of data concepts, without
focusing too heavily on individual tools or vendors, so the techniques and ideas should
outlast any individual trend or product. I’d highly recommend it for anyone wanting to
get up to speed in data engineering or analytics, or for existing practitioners who want to
fill in any gaps in their understanding.
—Jordan Tigani, founder and CEO, MotherDuck, and founding
engineer and cocreator of BigQuery
If you want to lead in your industry, you must build the capabilities required to provide
exceptional customer and employee experiences. This is not just a technology problem.
It’s a people opportunity. And it will transform your business. Data engineers are at the
center of this transformation. But today the discipline is misunderstood. This book will
demystify data engineering and become your ultimate guide to succeeding with data.
—Bruno Aziza, Head of Data Analytics, Google Cloud

What a book! Joe and Matt are giving you the answer to the question, “What must I
understand to do data engineering?” Whether you are getting started as a data engineer or
strengthening your skills, you are not looking for yet another technology handbook. You
are seeking to learn more about the underlying principles and the core concepts of the
role, its responsibilities, its technical and organizational environment, its mission—that’s
exactly what Joe and Matt offer in this book.
—Andy Petrella, founder of Kensu
This is the missing book in data engineering. A wonderfully thorough account of what it
takes to be a good practicing data engineer, including thoughtful real-life considerations.
I’d recommend all future education of data professionals include Joe and Matt’s work.
—Sarah Krasnik, data engineering leader
It is incredible to realize the breadth of knowledge a data engineer must have. But don’t
let it scare you. This book provides a great foundational overview of various architectures,
approaches, methodologies, and patterns that anyone working with data needs to be
aware of. But what is even more valuable is that this book is full of golden nuggets of
wisdom, best-practice advice, and things to consider when making decisions related to
data engineering. It is a must read for both experienced and new data engineers.
—Veronika Durgin, data and analytics leader
I was honored and humbled to be asked by Joe and Matt to help technical review
their masterpiece of data knowledge, Fundamentals of Data Engineering. Their ability to
break down the key components that are critical to anyone wanting to move into a data
engineering role is second to none. Their writing style makes the information easy to
absorb, and they leave no stone unturned. It was an absolute pleasure to work with some
of the best thought leaders in the data space. I can’t wait to see what they do next.
—Chris Tabb, cofounder of LEIT DATA
Fundamentals of Data Engineering is the first book to take an in-depth and holistic look
into the requirements of today’s data engineer. As you’ll see, the book dives into the
critical areas of data engineering including skill sets, tools, and architectures used to
manage, move, and curate data in today’s complex technical environments.
More importantly, Joe and Matt convey their master of understanding data engineering
and take the time to further dive into the more nuanced areas of data engineering and
make it relatable to the reader. Whether you’re a manager, experienced data engineer, or
someone wanting to get into the space, this book provides practical insight into today’s
data engineering landscape.
—Jon King, Principal Data Architect

Two things will remain relevant to data engineers in 2042: SQL and this book. Joe and
Matt cut through the hype around tools to extract the slowly changing dimensions of our
discipline. Whether you’re starting your journey with data or adding stripes to your black
belt, Fundamentals of Data Engineering lays the foundation for mastery.
—Kevin Hu, CEO of Metaplane
In a field that is rapidly changing, with new technology solutions popping up
constantly, Joe and Matt provide clear, timeless guidance, focusing on the core
concepts and foundational knowledge required to excel as a data engineer. This book
is jam packed with information that will empower you to ask the right questions,
understand trade-offs, and make the best decisions when designing your data architecture
and implementing solutions across the data engineering lifecycle. Whether you’re
just considering becoming a data engineer or have been in the field for years,
I guarantee you’ll learn something from this book!
—Julie Price, Senior Product Manager, SingleStore
Fundamentals of Data Engineering isn’t just an instruction manual—it teaches you how to
think like a data engineer. Part history lesson, part theory, and part acquired knowledge
from Joe and Matt’s decades of experience, the book has definitely earned its place on
every data professional’s bookshelf.
—Scott Breitenother, founder and CEO, Brooklyn Data Co.
There is no other book that so comprehensively covers what it means to be a data
engineer. Joe and Matt dive deep into responsibilities, impacts, architectural choices, and
so much more. Despite talking about such complex topics, the book is easy to read
and digest. A very powerful combination.
—Danny Leybzon, MLOps Architect
I wish this book was around years ago when I started working with data engineers. The
wide coverage of the field makes the involved roles clear and builds empathy with the
many roles it takes to build a competent data discipline.
—Tod Hansmann, VP Engineering
A must read and instant classic for anyone in the data engineering field. This book fills
a gap in the current knowledge base, discussing fundamental topics not found in other
books. You will gain understanding of foundational concepts and insight into historical
context about data engineering that will set up anyone to succeed.
—Matthew Sharp, Data and ML Engineer

Data engineering is the foundation of every analysis, machine learning model, and data
product, so it is critical that it is done well. There are countless manuals, books, and
references for each of the technologies used by data engineers, but very few (if any)
resources that provide a holistic view of what it means to work as a data engineer. This
book fills a critical need in the industry and does it well, laying the foundation for new
and working data engineers to be successful and effective in their roles. This is the book
that I’ll be recommending to anyone who wants to work with data at any level.
—Tobias Macey, host of The Data Engineering Podcast

