# Chapter 10. Security and Privacy

Paginas: 394-394

CHAPTER 10
Security and Privacy
Now that you’ve learned about the data engineering lifecycle, we’d like to reiterate the
importance of security and share some straightforward practices you can incorporate
in your day-to-day workflow. Security is vital to the practice of data engineering.
This should be blindingly obvious, but we’re constantly amazed at how often data
engineers view security as an afterthought. We believe that security is the first thing a
data engineer needs to think about in every aspect of their job and every stage of the
data engineering lifecycle. You deal with sensitive data, information, and access daily.
Your organization, customers, and business partners expect these valuable assets to
be handled with the utmost care and concern. One security breach or a data leak can
leave your business dead in the water; your career and reputation are ruined if it’s
your fault.
Security is a key ingredient for privacy. Privacy has long been critical to trust in the
corporate information technology space; engineers directly or indirectly handle data
related to people’s private lives. This includes financial information, data on private
communications (emails, texts, phone calls), medical history, educational records,
and job history. A company that leaked this information or misused it could find
itself a pariah when the breach came to light.
Increasingly, privacy is a matter of significant legal importance. For example, the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) went into effect in the US in the
1970s; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) followed in
the 1990s; GDPR was passed in Europe in the mid-2010s. Several US-based privacy
bills have passed or will soon. This is just a tiny sampling of privacy-related statutes
(and we believe just the beginning). Still, the penalties for violation of any of these
laws can be significant, even devastating, to a business. And because data systems are
woven into the fabric of education, health care, and business, data engineers handle
sensitive data related to each of these laws.
369

