# Serverless

Paginas: 168-168

11 Evan Sangaline, “Running FFmpeg on AWS Lambda for 1.9% the Cost of AWS Elastic Transcoder,” Intoli
blog, May 2, 2018, https://oreil.ly/myzOv.
Interoperability
Architect for sharing and interoperability.
Avoiding the “bear trap”
Something that is easy to get into might be painful or impossible to escape.
Flexibility
Things are moving so fast in the data space right now. Committing to a monolith
reduces flexibility and reversible decisions.
Serverless Versus Servers
A big trend for cloud providers is serverless, allowing developers and data engineers
to run applications without managing servers behind the scenes. Serverless provides a
quick time to value for the right use cases. For other cases, it might not be a good fit.
Let’s look at how to evaluate whether serverless is right for you.
Serverless
Though serverless has been around for quite some time, the serverless trend kicked
off in full force with AWS Lambda in 2014. With the promise of executing small
chunks of code on an as-needed basis without having to manage a server, serverless
exploded in popularity. The main reasons for its popularity are cost and convenience.
Instead of paying the cost of a server, why not just pay when your code is evoked?
Serverless has many flavors. Though function as a service (FaaS) is wildly popular,
serverless systems predate the advent of AWS Lambda. For example, Google Cloud’s
BigQuery is serverless in that data engineers don’t need to manage backend infra‐
structure, and the system scales to zero and scales up automatically to handle large
queries. Just load data into the system and start querying. You pay for the amount
of data your query consumes and a small cost to store your data. This payment
model—paying for consumption and storage—is becoming more prevalent.
When does serverless make sense? As with many other cloud services, it depends;
and data engineers would do well to understand the details of cloud pricing to
predict when serverless deployments will become expensive. Looking specifically at
the case of AWS Lambda, various engineers have found hacks to run batch workloads
at meager costs.11 On the other hand, serverless functions suffer from an inherent
overhead inefficiency. Handling one event per function call at a high event rate can be
catastrophically expensive, especially when simpler approaches like multithreading or
multiprocessing are great alternatives.
Serverless Versus Servers
|
143

