# Single-Tenant Versus Multitenant Storage

Paginas: 251-251

Time. The value to downstream users also depends upon the age of the data. New
data is typically more valuable and frequently accessed than older data. Technical
limitations may determine how long you can store data in certain storage tiers. For
example, if you store hot data in cache or memory, you’ll likely need to set a time to
live (TTL), so you can expire data after a certain point or persist it to warm or cold
storage. Otherwise, your hot storage will become full, and queries against the hot data
will suffer from performance lags.
Compliance. Certain regulations (e.g., HIPAA and Payment Card Industry, or PCI)
might require you to keep data for a certain time. In these situations, the data simply
needs to be accessible upon request, even if the likelihood of an access request is low.
Other regulations might require you to hold data for only a limited period of time,
and you’ll need to have the ability to delete specific information on time and within
compliance guidelines. You’ll need a storage and archival data process—along with
the ability to search the data—that fits the retention requirements of the particular
regulation with which you need to comply. Of course, you’ll want to balance compli‐
ance against cost.
Cost. Data is an asset that (hopefully) has an ROI. On the cost side of ROI, an
obvious storage expense is associated with data. Consider the timeline in which you
need to retain data. Given our discussion about hot, warm, and cold data, implement
automatic data lifecycle management practices and move the data to cold storage if
you don’t need the data past the required retention date. Or delete data if it’s truly not
needed.
Single-Tenant Versus Multitenant Storage
In Chapter 3, we covered the trade-offs between single-tenant and multitenant
architecture. To recap, with single-tenant architecture, each group of tenants (e.g.,
individual users, groups of users, accounts, or customers) gets its own dedicated set
of resources such as networking, compute, and storage. A multitenant architecture
inverts this and shares these resources among groups of users. Both architectures are
widely used. This section looks at the implications of single-tenant and multitenant
storage.
Adopting single-tenant storage means that every tenant gets their dedicated storage.
In the example in Figure 6-10, each tenant gets a database. No data is shared among
these databases, and storage is totally isolated. An example of using single-tenant
storage is that each customer’s data must be stored in isolation and cannot be blended
with any other customer’s data. In this case, each customer gets their own database.
226
|
Chapter 6: Storage

