# The Continuum of Data Engineering Roles, from A to B

Paginas: 46-46

Are we saying that SQL is a be-all and end-all language? Not at all. SQL is a powerful
tool that can quickly solve complex analytics and data transformation problems.
Given that time is a primary constraint for data engineering team throughput, engi‐
neers should embrace tools that combine simplicity and high productivity. Data
engineers also do well to develop expertise in composing SQL with other operations,
either within frameworks such as Spark and Flink or by using orchestration to
combine multiple tools. Data engineers should also learn modern SQL semantics for
dealing with JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) parsing and nested data and consider
leveraging a SQL management framework such as dbt (Data Build Tool).
A proficient data engineer also recognizes when SQL is not the right tool for the job
and can choose and code in a suitable alternative. A SQL expert could likely write a
query to stem and tokenize raw text in a natural language processing (NLP) pipeline
but would also recognize that coding in native Spark is a far superior alternative to
this masochistic exercise.
Data engineers may also need to develop proficiency in secondary programming
languages, including R, JavaScript, Go, Rust, C/C++, C#, and Julia. Developing
in these languages is often necessary when popular across the company or used
with domain-specific data tools. For instance, JavaScript has proven popular as a
language for user-defined functions in cloud data warehouses. At the same time, C#
and PowerShell are essential in companies that leverage Azure and the Microsoft
ecosystem.
Keeping Pace in a Fast-Moving Field
Once a new technology rolls over you, if you’re not part of the steamroller, you’re
part of the road.
—Stewart Brand
How do you keep your skills sharp in a rapidly changing field like data engineering?
Should you focus on the latest tools or deep dive into fundamentals? Here’s our
advice: focus on the fundamentals to understand what’s not going to change; pay
attention to ongoing developments to know where the field is going. New paradigms
and practices are introduced all the time, and it’s incumbent on you to stay current.
Strive to understand how new technologies will be helpful in the lifecycle.
The Continuum of Data Engineering Roles, from A to B
Although job descriptions paint a data engineer as a “unicorn” who must possess
every data skill imaginable, data engineers don’t all do the same type of work or have
the same skill set. Data maturity is a helpful guide to understanding the types of data
challenges a company will face as it grows its data capability. It’s beneficial to look
Data Engineering Skills and Activities
|
21

