# Security

Paginas: 74-74

of tools and practices have shifted this focus. Data engineering now encompasses
far more than tools and technology. The field is now moving up the value chain,
incorporating traditional enterprise practices such as data management and cost
optimization and newer practices like DataOps.
We’ve termed these practices undercurrents—security, data management, DataOps,
data architecture, orchestration, and software engineering—that support every aspect
of the data engineering lifecycle (Figure 2-7). In this section, we give a brief overview
of these undercurrents and their major components, which you’ll see in more detail
throughout the book.
Figure 2-7. The major undercurrents of data engineering
Security
Security must be top of mind for data engineers, and those who ignore it do so
at their peril. That’s why security is the first undercurrent. Data engineers must
understand both data and access security, exercising the principle of least privilege.
The principle of least privilege means giving a user or system access to only the
essential data and resources to perform an intended function. A common antipattern
we see with data engineers with little security experience is to give admin access to all
users. This is a catastrophe waiting to happen!
Give users only the access they need to do their jobs today, nothing more. Don’t
operate from a root shell when you’re just looking for visible files with standard user
access. When querying tables with a lesser role, don’t use the superuser role in a
database. Imposing the principle of least privilege on ourselves can prevent accidental
damage and keep you in a security-first mindset.
People and organizational structure are always the biggest security vulnerabilities in
any company. When we hear about major security breaches in the media, it often
turns out that someone in the company ignored basic precautions, fell victim to a
phishing attack, or otherwise acted irresponsibly. The first line of defense for data
security is to create a culture of security that permeates the organization. All individ‐
uals who have access to data must understand their responsibility in protecting the
company’s sensitive data and its customers.
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
49

