# Logging, Monitoring, and Alerting

Paginas: 400-400

Encryption
Encryption is not a magic bullet. It will do little to protect you in the event of a
human security breach that grants access to credentials. Encryption is a baseline
requirement for any organization that respects security and privacy. It will protect
you from basic attacks, such as network traffic interception.
Let’s look separately at encryption at rest and in transit.
Encryption at rest
Be sure your data is encrypted when it is at rest (on a storage device). Your company
laptops should have full-disk encryption enabled to protect data if a device is stolen.
Implement server-side encryption for all data stored in servers, filesystems, databases,
and object storage in the cloud. All data backups for archival purposes should also be
encrypted. Finally, incorporate application-level encryption where applicable.
Encryption over the wire
Encryption over the wire is now the default for current protocols. For instance,
HTTPS is generally required for modern cloud APIs. Data engineers should always
be aware of how keys are handled; bad key handling is a significant source of data
leaks. In addition, HTTPS does nothing to protect data if bucket permissions are left
open to the public, another cause of several data scandals over the last decade.
Engineers should also be aware of the security limitations of older protocols. For
example, FTP is simply not secure on a public network. While this may not appear
to be a problem when data is already public, FTP is vulnerable to man-in-the-middle
attacks, whereby an attacker intercepts downloaded data and changes it before it
arrives at the client. It is best to simply avoid FTP.
Make sure everything is encrypted over the wire, even with legacy protocols. When in
doubt, use robust technology with encryption baked in.
Logging, Monitoring, and Alerting
Hackers and bad actors typically don’t announce that they’re infiltrating your systems.
Most companies don’t find out about security incidents until well after the fact. Part
of DataOps is to observe, detect, and alert on incidents. As a data engineer, you
should set up automated monitoring, logging, and alerting to be aware of peculiar
events when they happen in your systems. If possible, set up automatic anomaly
detection.
Here are some areas you should monitor:
Technology
|
375

