# Modularity

Paginas: 165-166

Figure 4-4. The monolith tightly couples its services
Of course, the monolith has cons. For one thing, monoliths are brittle. Because of the
vast number of moving parts, updates and releases take longer and tend to bake in
“the kitchen sink.” If the system has a bug—hopefully, the software’s been thoroughly
tested before release!—it can harm the entire system.
User-induced problems also happen with monoliths. For example, we saw a mono‐
lithic ETL pipeline that took 48 hours to run. If anything broke anywhere in the
pipeline, the entire process had to restart. Meanwhile, anxious business users were
waiting for their reports, which were already two days late by default and usually
arrived much later. Breakages were common enough that the monolithic system was
eventually thrown out.
Multitenancy in a monolithic system can also be a significant problem. It can be
challenging to isolate the workloads of multiple users. In an on-prem data warehouse,
one user-defined function might consume enough CPU to slow the system for other
users. Conflicts between dependencies and resource contention are frequent sources
of headaches.
Another con of monoliths is that switching to a new system will be painful if the
vendor or open source project dies. Because all of your processes are contained in
the monolith, extracting yourself out of that system, and onto a new platform, will be
costly in both time and money.
Modularity
Modularity (Figure 4-5) is an old concept in software engineering, but modular
distributed systems truly came into vogue with the rise of microservices. Instead of
relying on a massive monolith to handle your needs, why not break apart systems and
processes into their self-contained areas of concern? Microservices can communicate
via APIs, allowing developers to focus on their domains while making their applica‐
tions accessible to other microservices. This is the trend in software engineering and
is increasingly seen in modern data systems.
140
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

Figure 4-5. With modularity, each service is decoupled from another
Major tech companies have been key drivers in the microservices movement. The
famous Bezos API mandate decreases coupling between applications, allowing refac‐
toring and decomposition. Bezos also imposed the two-pizza rule (no team should
be so large that two pizzas can’t feed the whole group). Effectively, this means that a
team will have at most five members. This cap also limits the complexity of a team’s
domain of responsibility—in particular, the codebase that it can manage. Whereas
an extensive monolithic application might entail a group of one hundred people,
dividing developers into small groups of five requires that this application be broken
into small, manageable, loosely coupled pieces.
In a modular microservice environment, components are swappable, and it’s possi‐
ble to create a polyglot (multiprogramming language) application; a Java service
can replace a service written in Python. Service customers need worry only about
the technical specifications of the service API, not behind-the-scenes details of
implementation.
Data-processing technologies have shifted toward a modular model by providing
strong support for interoperability. Data is stored in object storage in a standard
format such as Parquet in data lakes and lakehouses. Any processing tool that sup‐
ports the format can read the data and write processed results back into the lake
for processing by another tool. Cloud data warehouses support interoperation with
object storage through import/export using standard formats and external tables—
i.e., queries run directly on data in a data lake.
New technologies arrive on the scene at a dizzying rate in today’s data ecosystem, and
most get stale and outmoded quickly. Rinse and repeat. The ability to swap out tools
as technology changes is invaluable. We view data modularity as a more powerful
paradigm than monolithic data engineering. Modularity allows engineers to choose
the best technology for each job or step along the pipeline.
The cons of modularity are that there’s more to reason about. Instead of handling a
single system of concern, now you potentially have countless systems to understand
and operate. Interoperability is a potential headache; hopefully, these systems all play
nicely together.
This very problem led us to break out orchestration as a separate undercurrent
instead of placing it under data management. Orchestration is also important for
monolithic data architectures; witness the success of tools like BMC Software’s
Control-M in the traditional data warehousing space. But orchestrating five or ten
Monolith Versus Modular
|
141

