# Data Management

Paginas: 253-253

The division of responsibilities for data storage will depend significantly on the
maturity of the organization involved. The data engineer will likely manage the
storage systems and workflow if the company is early in its data maturity. If the
company is later in its data maturity, the data engineer will probably manage a section
of the storage system. This data engineer will also likely interact with engineers on
either side of storage—ingestion and transformation.
The data engineer needs to ensure that the storage systems used by downstream users
are securely available, contain high-quality data, have ample storage capacity, and
perform when queries and transformations are run.
Undercurrents
The undercurrents for storage are significant because storage is a critical hub for all
stages of the data engineering lifecycle. Unlike other undercurrents for which data
might be in motion (ingestion) or queried and transformed, the undercurrents for
storage differ because storage is so ubiquitous.
Security
While engineers often view security as an impediment to their work, they should
embrace the idea that security is a key enabler. Robust security at rest and in motion
with fine-grained data access control allows data to be shared and consumed more
widely within a business. The value of data goes up significantly when this is possible.
As always, exercise the principle of least privilege. Don’t give full database access
to anyone unless required. This means most data engineers don’t need full database
access in practice. Also, pay attention to the column, row, and cell-level access con‐
trols in your database. Give users only the information they need and no more.
Data Management
Data management is critical as we read and write data with storage systems.
Data catalogs and metadata management
Data is enhanced by robust metadata. Cataloging enables data scientists, analysts,
and ML engineers by enabling data discovery. Data lineage accelerates the time to
track down data problems and allows consumers to locate upstream raw sources.
As you build out your storage systems, invest in your metadata. Integration of a
data dictionary with these other tools allows users to share and record institutional
knowledge robustly.
228
|
Chapter 6: Storage

