# Indexes, Partitioning, and Clustering

Paginas: 238-239

well-known scaling and locking limitations, especially for analytics queries that run
across large volumes of data. While scalable versions of row-oriented transactional
databases have overcome some of these limitations, they are still not truly optimized
for analytics at scale.
Indexes, Partitioning, and Clustering
Indexes provide a map of the table for particular fields and allow extremely fast
lookup of individual records. Without indexes, a database would need to scan an
entire table to find the records satisfying a WHERE condition.
In most RDBMSs, indexes are used for primary table keys (allowing unique identifi‐
cation of rows) and foreign keys (allowing joins with other tables). Indexes can also
be applied to other columns to serve the needs of specific applications. Using indexes,
an RDBMS can look up and update thousands of rows per second.
We do not cover transactional database records in depth in this book; numerous tech‐
nical resources are available on this topic. Rather, we are interested in the evolution
away from indexes in analytics-oriented storage systems and some new developments
in indexes for analytics use cases.
The evolution from rows to columns
An early data warehouse was typically built on the same type of RDBMS used for
transactional applications. The growing popularity of MPP systems meant a shift
toward parallel processing for significant improvements in scan performance across
large quantities of data for analytics purposes. However, these row-oriented MPPs
still used indexes to support joins and condition checking.
In “Raw Ingredients of Data Storage” on page 191, we discuss columnar serialization.
Columnar serialization allows a database to scan only the columns required for a
particular query, sometimes dramatically reducing the amount of data read from the
disk. In addition, arranging data by column packs similar values next to each other,
yielding high-compression ratios with minimal compression overhead. This allows
data to be scanned more quickly from disk and over a network.
Columnar databases perform poorly for transactional use cases—i.e., when we try to
look up large numbers of individual rows asynchronously. However, they perform
extremely well when large quantities of data must be scanned—e.g., for complex
data transformations, aggregations, statistical calculations, or evaluation of complex
conditions on large datasets.
In the past, columnar databases performed poorly on joins, so the advice for
data engineers was to denormalize data, using wide schemas, arrays, and nested
data wherever possible. Join performance for columnar databases has improved
dramatically in recent years, so while there can still be performance advantages in
Data Storage Systems
|
213

2 Benoit Dageville, “The Snowflake Elastic Data Warehouse,” SIGMOD ’16: Proceedings of the 2016 International
Conference on Management of Data (June 2016): 215–226, https://oreil.ly/Tc1su.
denormalization, this is no longer a necessity. You’ll learn more about normalization
and denormalization in Chapter 8.
From indexes to partitions and clustering
While columnar databases allow for fast scan speeds, it’s still helpful to reduce the
amount of data scanned as much as possible. In addition to scanning only data in
columns relevant to a query, we can partition a table into multiple subtables by
splitting it on a field. It is quite common in analytics and data science use cases to
scan over a time range, so date- and time-based partitioning is extremely common.
Columnar databases generally support a variety of other partition schemes as well.
Clusters allow finer-grained organization of data within partitions. A clustering
scheme applied within a columnar database sorts data by one or a few fields, colocat‐
ing similar values. This improves performance for filtering, sorting, and joining these
values.
Example: Snowflake micro-partitioning
We mention Snowflake micro-partitioning because it’s a good example of recent
developments and evolution in approaches to columnar storage. Micro partitions are
sets of rows between 50 and 500 megabytes in uncompressed size. Snowflake uses an
algorithmic approach that attempts to cluster together similar rows. This contrasts
the traditional naive approach to partitioning on a single designated field, such as a
date. Snowflake specifically looks for values that are repeated in a field across many
rows. This allows aggressive pruning of queries based on predicates. For example, a
WHERE clause might stipulate the following:
WHERE created_date='2022-01-02'
In such a query, Snowflake excludes any micro-partitions that don’t include this date,
effectively pruning this data. Snowflake also allows overlapping micro-partitions,
potentially partitioning on multiple fields showing significant repeats.
Efficient pruning is facilitated by Snowflake’s metadata database, which stores a
description of each micro-partition, including the number of rows and value ranges
for fields. At each query stage, Snowflake analyzes micro-partitions to determine
which ones need to be scanned. Snowflake uses the term hybrid columnar storage,2
partially referring to the fact that its tables are broken into small groups of rows, even
though storage is fundamentally columnar. The metadata database plays a role similar
to an index in a traditional relational database.
214
|
Chapter 6: Storage

