# Conclusion

Paginas: 293-293

Orchestration
Ingestion generally sits at the beginning of a large and complex data graph; since
ingestion is the first stage of the data engineering lifecycle, ingested data will flow into
many more data processing steps, and data from many sources will commingle in
complex ways. As we’ve emphasized throughout this book, orchestration is a crucial
process for coordinating these steps.
Organizations in an early stage of data maturity may choose to deploy ingestion
processes as simple scheduled cron jobs. However, it is crucial to recognize that this
approach is brittle and can slow the velocity of data engineering deployment and
development.
As data pipeline complexity grows, true orchestration is necessary. By true orches‐
tration, we mean a system capable of scheduling complete task graphs rather than
individual tasks. An orchestration can start each ingestion task at the appropriate
scheduled time. Downstream processing and transform steps begin as ingestion tasks
are completed. Further downstream, processing steps lead to additional processing
steps.
Software Engineering
The ingestion stage of the data engineering lifecycle is engineering intensive. This
stage sits at the edge of the data engineering domain and often interfaces with
external systems, where software and data engineers have to build a variety of custom
plumbing.
Behind the scenes, ingestion is incredibly complicated, often with teams operating
open source frameworks like Kafka or Pulsar, or some of the biggest tech companies
running their own forked or homegrown ingestion solutions. As discussed in this
chapter, managed data connectors have simplified the ingestion process, such as
Fivetran, Matillion, and Airbyte. Data engineers should take advantage of the best
available tools—primarily, managed tools and services that do a lot of the heavy
lifting for you—and develop high software development competency in areas where
it matters. It pays to use proper version control and code review processes and
implement appropriate tests even for any ingestion-related code.
When writing software, your code needs to be decoupled. Avoid writing monolithic
systems with tight dependencies on the source or destination systems.
Conclusion
In your work as a data engineer, ingestion will likely consume a significant part of
your energy and effort. At the heart, ingestion is plumbing, connecting pipes to other
pipes, ensuring that data flows consistently and securely to its destination. At times,
268
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

