# Whom You’ll Work With

Paginas: 206-207

In Figure 5-11, for example, each message has a numeric ID— shown inside the circle
representing the message—that we use as a partition key. To determine the partition,
we divide by 3 and take the remainder. Going from bottom to top, the partitions have
remainder 0, 1, and 2, respectively.
Figure 5-11. An incoming message stream broken into three partitions
Set a partition key so that messages that should be processed together have the same
partition key. For example, it is common in IoT settings to want to send all messages
from a particular device to the same processing server. We can achieve this by using a
device ID as the partition key, and then setting up one server to consume from each
partition.
A key concern with stream partitioning is ensuring that your partition key does
not generate hotspotting—a disproportionate number of messages delivered to one
partition. For example, if each IoT device were known to be located in a particular
US state, we might use the state as the partition key. Given a device distribution
proportional to state population, the partitions containing California, Texas, Florida,
and New York might be overwhelmed, with other partitions relatively underutilized.
Ensure that your partition key will distribute messages evenly across partitions.
Fault tolerance and resilience. Event-streaming platforms are typically distributed sys‐
tems, with streams stored on various nodes. If a node goes down, another node
replaces it, and the stream is still accessible. This means records aren’t lost; you may
choose to delete records, but that’s another story. This fault tolerance and resilience
make streaming platforms a good choice when you need a system that can reliably
produce, store, and ingest event data.
Whom You’ll Work With
When accessing source systems, it’s essential to understand the people with
whom you’ll work. In our experience, good diplomacy and relationships with the
Whom You’ll Work With
|
181

8 James Denmore, Data Pipelines Pocket Reference (Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly), https://oreil.ly/8QdkJ. Read the
book for more information on how a data contract should be written.
stakeholders of source systems are an underrated and crucial part of successful data
engineering.
Who are these stakeholders? Typically, you’ll deal with two categories of stakeholders:
systems and data stakeholders (Figure 5-12). A systems stakeholder builds and main‐
tains the source systems; these might be software engineers, application developers,
and third parties. Data stakeholders own and control access to the data you want,
generally handled by IT, a data governance group, or third parties. The systems and
data stakeholders are often different people or teams; sometimes, they are the same.
Figure 5-12. The data engineer’s upstream stakeholders
You’re often at the mercy of the stakeholder’s ability to follow correct software engi‐
neering, database management, and development practices. Ideally, the stakeholders
are doing DevOps and working in an agile manner. We suggest creating a feedback
loop between data engineers and stakeholders of the source systems to create aware‐
ness of how data is consumed and used. This is among the single most overlooked
areas where data engineers can get a lot of value. When something happens to
the upstream source data—and something will happen, whether it’s a schema or
data change, a failed server or database, or other important events—you want to
make sure that you’re made aware of the impact these issues will have on your data
engineering systems.
It might help to have a data contract in place with your upstream source system
owners. What is a data contract? James Denmore offers this definition:8
A data contract is a written agreement between the owner of a source system and the
team ingesting data from that system for use in a data pipeline. The contract should
state what data is being extracted, via what method (full, incremental), how often,
as well as who (person, team) are the contacts for both the source system and the
ingestion. Data contracts should be stored in a well-known and easy-to-find location
such as a GitHub repo or internal documentation site. If possible, format data contracts
in a standardized form so they can be integrated into the development process or
queried programmatically.
182
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

