# Orchestration

Paginas: 211-211

Here are some things to consider regarding source system architectures:
Reliability
All systems suffer from entropy at some point, and outputs will drift from what’s
expected. Bugs are introduced, and random glitches happen. Does the system
produce predictable outputs? How often can we expect the system to fail? What’s
the mean time to repair to get the system back to sufficient reliability?
Durability
Everything fails. A server might die, a cloud’s zone or region could go offline,
or other issues may arise. You need to account for how an inevitable failure
or outage will affect your managed data systems. How does the source system
handle data loss from hardware failures or network outages? What’s the plan
for handling outages for an extended period and limiting the blast radius of an
outage?
Availability
What guarantees that the source system is up, running, and available when it’s
supposed to be?
People
Who’s in charge of the source system’s design, and how will you know if breaking
changes are made in the architecture? A data engineer needs to work with the
teams who maintain the source systems and ensure that these systems are archi‐
tected reliably. Create an SLA with the source system team to set expectations
about potential system failure.
Orchestration
When orchestrating within your data engineering workflow, you’ll primarily be con‐
cerned with making sure your orchestration can access the source system, which
requires the correct network access, authentication, and authorization.
Here are some things to think about concerning orchestration for source systems:
Cadence and frequency
Is the data available on a fixed schedule, or can you access new data whenever
you want?
Common frameworks
Do the software and data engineers use the same container manager, such as
Kubernetes? Would it make sense to integrate application and data workloads
into the same Kubernetes cluster? If you’re using an orchestration framework
like Airflow, does it make sense to integrate it with the upstream application
team? There’s no correct answer here, but you need to balance the benefits of
integration with the risks of tight coupling.
186
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

