# APIs

Paginas: 279-279

1 Karl Hughes, “The Bulk of Software Engineering Is Just Plumbing,” Karl Hughes website, July 8, 2018,
https://oreil.ly/uIuqJ.
unavailable. No data will be lost in the failover because the replica is entirely in sync
with the primary database.
The advantage of asynchronous CDC replication is a loosely coupled architecture
pattern. While the replica might be slightly delayed from the primary database, this
is often not a problem for analytics applications, and events can now be directed to
a variety of targets; we might run CDC replication while simultaneously directing
events to object storage and a streaming analytics processor.
CDC considerations
Like anything in technology, CDC is not free. CDC consumes various database
resources, such as memory, disk bandwidth, storage, CPU time, and network band‐
width. Engineers should work with production teams and run tests before turning on
CDC on production systems to avoid operational problems. Similar considerations
apply to synchronous replication.
For batch CDC, be aware that running any large batch query against a transactional
production system can cause excessive load. Either run such queries only at off-hours
or use a read replica to avoid burdening the primary database.
APIs
The bulk of software engineering is just plumbing.
—Karl Hughes1
As we mentioned in Chapter 5, APIs are a data source that continues to grow in
importance and popularity. A typical organization may have hundreds of external
data sources such as SaaS platforms or partner companies. The hard reality is that
no proper standard exists for data exchange over APIs. Data engineers can spend
a significant amount of time reading documentation, communicating with external
data owners, and writing and maintaining API connection code.
Three trends are slowly changing this situation. First, many vendors provide API cli‐
ent libraries for various programming languages that remove much of the complexity
of API access.
Second, numerous data connector platforms are available now as SaaS, open source,
or managed open source. These platforms provide turnkey data connectivity to many
data sources; they offer frameworks for writing custom connectors for unsupported
data sources. See “Managed Data Connectors” on page 256.
254
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

