# Ordering and Multiple Delivery

Paginas: 273-273

Message and Stream Ingestion Considerations
Ingesting event data is common. This section covers issues you should consider when
ingesting events, drawing on topics covered in Chapters 5 and 6.
Schema Evolution
Schema evolution is common when handling event data; fields may be added or
removed, or value types might change (say, a string to an integer). Schema evolution
can have unintended impacts on your data pipelines and destinations. For example,
an IoT device gets a firmware update that adds a new field to the event it transmits,
or a third-party API introduces changes to its event payload or countless other
scenarios. All of these potentially impact your downstream capabilities.
To alleviate issues related to schema evolution, here are a few suggestions. First, if
your event-processing framework has a schema registry (discussed earlier in this
chapter), use it to version your schema changes. Next, a dead-letter queue (described
in “Error Handling and Dead-Letter Queues” on page 249) can help you investigate
issues with events that are not properly handled. Finally, the low-fidelity route
(and the most effective) is regularly communicating with upstream stakeholders
about potential schema changes and proactively addressing schema changes with the
teams introducing these changes instead of reacting to the receiving end of breaking
changes.
Late-Arriving Data
Though you probably prefer all event data to arrive on time, event data might arrive
late. A group of events might occur around the same time frame (similar event
times), but some might arrive later than others (late ingestion times) because of
various circumstances.
For example, an IoT device might be late sending a message because of internet
latency issues. This is common when ingesting data. You should be aware of late-
arriving data and the impact on downstream systems and uses. Suppose you assume
that ingestion or process time is the same as the event time. You may get some
strange results if your reports or analysis depend on an accurate portrayal of when
events occur. To handle late-arriving data, you need to set a cutoff time for when
late-arriving data will no longer be processed.
Ordering and Multiple Delivery
Streaming platforms are generally built out of distributed systems, which can cause
some complications. Specifically, messages may be delivered out of order and more
than once (at-least-once delivery). See the event-streaming platforms discussion in
Chapter 5 for more details.
248
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

