# Machine Learning

Paginas: 374-374

Performance for embedded analytics encompasses three problems. First, app users
are not as tolerant of infrequent batch processing as internal company analysts; users
of a recruiting SaaS platform may expect to see a change in their statistics as soon
as they upload a new resume. Users want low data latency. Second, users of data
apps expect fast query performance. When they adjust parameters in an analytics
dashboard, they want to see refreshed results appear in seconds. Third, data apps
must often support extremely high query rates across many dashboards and numer‐
ous customers. High concurrency is critical.
Google and other early major players in the data apps space developed exotic
technologies to cope with these challenges. For new startups, the default is to use
conventional transactional databases for data applications. As their customer bases
expand, they outgrow their initial architecture. They have access to a new generation
of databases that combine high performance—fast queries, high concurrency, and
near real-time updates—with relative ease of use (e.g., SQL-based analytics).
Machine Learning
The second major area for serving data is machine learning. ML is increasingly
common, so we’ll assume you’re at least familiar with the concept. With the rise of
ML engineering (itself almost a parallel universe to data engineering), you might ask
yourself where a data engineer fits into the picture.
Admittedly, the boundary between ML, data science, data engineering, and ML
engineering is increasingly fuzzy, and this boundary varies dramatically between
organizations. In some organizations, ML engineers take over data processing for ML
applications right after data collection or may even form an entirely separate and
parallel data organization that handles the entire lifecycle for all ML applications.
Data engineers handle all data processing in other settings and then hand off data to
ML engineers for model training. Data engineers may even handle some extremely
ML-specific tasks, such as featurization of data.
Let’s return to our example of quality for control of running shorts produced by
an online retailer. Suppose that streaming data has been implemented in the factory
that makes the raw fabric stock for the shorts. Data scientists discovered that the
quality of the manufactured fabric is susceptible to characteristics of the input raw
polyester, temperature, humidity, and various tunable parameters of the loom that
weaves the fabric. Data scientists develop a basic model to optimize loom parameters.
ML engineers automate model training and set up a process to automatically tune the
loom based on input parameters. Data and ML engineers work together to design a
featurization pipeline, and data engineers implement and maintain the pipeline.
Machine Learning
|
349

