# Files and Unstructured Data

Paginas: 181-181

As data proliferates, especially with the rise of data sharing (discussed next), we
expect that a data engineer’s role will shift heavily toward understanding the interplay
between data sources and destinations. The basic plumbing tasks of data engineer‐
ing—moving data from A to B—will simplify dramatically. On the other hand, it will
remain critical to understand the nature of data as it’s created in source systems.
Sources of Data: How Is Data Created?
As you learn about the various underlying operational patterns of the systems that
generate data, it’s essential to understand how data is created. Data is an unorganized,
context-less collection of facts and figures. It can be created in many ways, both
analog and digital.
Analog data creation occurs in the real world, such as vocal speech, sign language,
writing on paper, or playing an instrument. This analog data is often transient; how
often have you had a verbal conversation whose contents are lost to the ether after the
conversation ends?
Digital data is either created by converting analog data to digital form or is the native
product of a digital system. An example of analog to digital is a mobile texting app
that converts analog speech into digital text. An example of digital data creation is a
credit card transaction on an ecommerce platform. A customer places an order, the
transaction is charged to their credit card, and the information for the transaction is
saved to various databases.
We’ll utilize a few common examples in this chapter, such as data created when
interacting with a website or mobile application. But in truth, data is everywhere
in the world around us. We capture data from IoT devices, credit card terminals,
telescope sensors, stock trades, and more.
Get familiar with your source system and how it generates data. Put in the effort
to read the source system documentation and understand its patterns and quirks. If
your source system is an RDBMS, learn how it operates (writes, commits, queries,
etc.); learn the ins and outs of the source system that might affect your ability to
ingest from it.
Source Systems: Main Ideas
Source systems produce data in various ways. This section discusses the main ideas
you’ll frequently encounter as you work with source systems.
Files and Unstructured Data
A file is a sequence of bytes, typically stored on a disk. Applications often write data
to files. Files may store local parameters, events, logs, images, and audio.
156
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

