# Hybrid Cloud

Paginas: 152-152

3 This is a major point of emphasis in Storment and Fuller, Cloud FinOps.
a rude shock. On a direct comparison basis, long-running servers in the cloud are
significantly more expensive than their on-premises counterparts.
The key to finding value in the cloud is understanding and optimizing the cloud
pricing model. Rather than deploying a set of long-running servers capable of han‐
dling full peak load, use autoscaling to allow workloads to scale down to minimal
infrastructure when loads are light and up to massive clusters during peak times. To
realize discounts through more ephemeral, less durable workloads, use reserved or
spot instances, or use serverless functions in place of servers.
We often think of this optimization as leading to lower costs, but we should also
strive to increase business value by exploiting the dynamic nature of the cloud.3
Data engineers can create new value in the cloud by accomplishing things that were
impossible in their on-premises environment. For example, it is possible to quickly
spin up massive compute clusters to run complex transformations at scales that were
unaffordable for on-premises hardware.
Data Gravity
In addition to basic errors such as following on-premises operational practices in
the cloud, data engineers need to watch out for other aspects of cloud pricing and
incentives that frequently catch users unawares.
Vendors want to lock you into their offerings. Getting data onto the platform is cheap
or free on most cloud platforms, but getting data out can be extremely expensive. Be
aware of data egress fees and their long-term impacts on your business before getting
blindsided by a large bill. Data gravity is real: once data lands in a cloud, the cost to
extract it and migrate processes can be very high.
Hybrid Cloud
As more established businesses migrate into the cloud, the hybrid cloud model
is growing in importance. Virtually no business can migrate all of its workloads
overnight. The hybrid cloud model assumes that an organization will indefinitely
maintain some workloads outside the cloud.
There are many reasons to consider a hybrid cloud model. Organizations may
believe that they have achieved operational excellence in certain areas, such as their
application stack and associated hardware. Thus, they may migrate only to specific
workloads where they see immediate benefits in the cloud environment. For example,
an on-premises Spark stack is migrated to ephemeral cloud clusters, reducing the
operational burden of managing software and hardware for the data engineering
team and allowing rapid scaling for large data jobs.
Location
|
127

