# Proprietary Walled Gardens

Paginas: 162-162

providing little value back to the community. How likely will the product remain
viable as a community-supported open source if the company shuts down?
Note also that clouds offer their own managed open source products. If a cloud
vendor sees traction with a particular product or project, expect that vendor to offer
its version. This can range from simple examples (open source Linux offered on
VMs) to extremely complex managed services (fully managed Kafka). The motivation
for these offerings is simple: clouds make their money through consumption. More
offerings in a cloud ecosystem mean a greater chance of “stickiness” and increased
customer spending.
Proprietary Walled Gardens
While OSS is ubiquitous, a big market also exists for non-OSS technologies. Some
of the biggest companies in the data industry sell closed source products. Let’s look
at two major types of proprietary walled gardens, independent companies and cloud-
platform offerings.
Independent offerings
The data-tool landscape has seen exponential growth over the last several years.
Every day, new independent offerings arise for data tools. With the ability to raise
funds from VCs flush with capital, these data companies can scale and hire great
engineering, sales, and marketing teams. This presents a situation where users have
some great product choices in the marketplace while having to wade through endless
sales and marketing clutter. At the time of this writing, the good times of freely
available capital for data companies are coming to an end, but that’s another long
story whose consequences are still unfolding.
Often a company selling a data tool will not release it as OSS, instead offering
a proprietary solution. Although you won’t have the transparency of a pure OSS
solution, a proprietary independent solution can work quite well, especially as a fully
managed service in the cloud.
The following are things to consider with an independent offering:
Interoperability
Make sure that the tool interoperates with other tools you’ve chosen (OSS, other
independents, cloud offerings, etc.). Interoperability is key, so make sure you can
try it before you buy.
Mindshare and market share
Is the solution popular? Does it command a presence in the marketplace? Does it
enjoy positive customer reviews?
Build Versus Buy
|
137

