# Colophon

Paginas: 444-445

About the Authors
Joe Reis is a business-minded data nerd who’s worked in the data industry for 20
years, with responsibilities ranging from statistical modeling, forecasting, machine
learning, data engineering, data architecture, and almost everything else in between.
Joe is the CEO and cofounder of Ternary Data, a data engineering and architecture
consulting firm based in Salt Lake City, Utah. In addition, he volunteers with several
technology groups and teaches at the University of Utah. In his spare time, Joe likes
to rock climb, produce electronic music, and take his kids on crazy adventures.
Matt Housley is a data engineering consultant and cloud specialist. After some early
programming experience with Logo, Basic, and 6502 assembly, he completed a PhD
in mathematics at the University of Utah. Matt then began working in data science,
eventually specializing in cloud-based data engineering. He cofounded Ternary Data
with Joe Reis, where he leverages his teaching experience to train future data engi‐
neers and advise teams on robust data architecture. Matt and Joe also pontificate on
all things data on The Monday Morning Data Chat.
Colophon
The animal on the cover of Fundamentals of Data Engineering is the white-eared
puffbird (Nystalus chacuru).
So named for the conspicuous patch of white at their ears, as well as for their fluffy
plumage, these small, rotund birds are found across a wide swath of central South
America, where they inhabit forest edges and savanna.
White-eared puffbirds are sit-and-wait hunters, perching in open spaces for long
periods and feeding opportunistically on insects, lizards, and even small mammals
that happen to come near. They are most often found alone or in pairs and are
relatively quiet birds, vocalizing only rarely.
The International Union for Conservation of Nature has listed the white-eared
puffbird as being of least concern, due, in part, to their extensive range and stable
population. Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are
important to the world.
The cover illustration is by Karen Montgomery, based on an antique line engraving
from Shaw’s General Zoology. The cover fonts are Gilroy Semibold and Guardian
Sans. The text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Con‐
densed; and the code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.

Learn from experts.
Become one yourself.
Books | Live online courses
Instant Answers | Virtual events
Videos | Interactive learning
Get started at oreilly.com.
©2022 O’Reilly Media, Inc. O’Reilly is a registered trademark of O’Reilly Media, Inc. | 175

