# Containers

Paginas: 169-169

As with other areas of ops, it’s critical to monitor and model. Monitor to determine
cost per event in a real-world environment and maximum length of serverless execu‐
tion, and model using this cost per event to determine overall costs as event rates
grow. Modeling should also include worst-case scenarios—what happens if my site
gets hit by a bot swarm or DDoS attack?
Containers
In conjunction with serverless and microservices, containers are one of the most
powerful trending operational technologies as of this writing. Containers play a role
in both serverless and microservices.
Containers are often referred to as lightweight virtual machines. Whereas a traditional
VM wraps up an entire operating system, a container packages an isolated user
space (such as a filesystem and a few processes); many such containers can coexist
on a single host operating system. This provides some of the principal benefits of
virtualization (i.e., dependency and code isolation) without the overhead of carrying
around an entire operating system kernel.
A single hardware node can host numerous containers with fine-grained resource
allocations. At the time of this writing, containers continue to grow in popularity,
along with Kubernetes, a container management system. Serverless environments
typically run on containers behind the scenes. Indeed, Kubernetes is a kind of server‐
less environment because it allows developers and ops teams to deploy microservices
without worrying about the details of the machines where they are deployed.
Containers provide a partial solution to problems of the distributed monolith men‐
tioned earlier in this chapter. For example, Hadoop now supports containers, allow‐
ing each job to have its own isolated dependencies.
Container clusters do not provide the same security and isola‐
tion that full VMs offer. Container escape—broadly, a class of
exploits whereby code in a container gains privileges outside the
container at the OS level—is common enough to be considered a
risk for multitenancy. While Amazon EC2 is a truly multitenant
environment with VMs from many customers hosted on the same
hardware, a Kubernetes cluster should host code only within an
environment of mutual trust (e.g., inside the walls of a single
company). In addition, code review processes and vulnerability
scanning are critical to ensure that a developer doesn’t introduce a
security hole.
Various flavors of container platforms add additional serverless features. Container‐
ized function platforms run containers as ephemeral units triggered by events rather
144
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

