# Acknowledgments

Paginas: 23-25

How to Contact Us
Please address comments and questions concerning this book to the publisher:
O’Reilly Media, Inc.
1005 Gravenstein Highway North
Sebastopol, CA 95472
800-998-9938 (in the United States or Canada)
707-829-0515 (international or local)
707-829-0104 (fax)
We have a web page for this book, where we list errata, examples, and any additional
information. You can access this page at https://oreil.ly/fundamentals-of-data.
Email bookquestions@oreilly.com to comment or ask technical questions about this
book.
For news and information about our books and courses, visit https://oreilly.com.
Find us on LinkedIn: https://linkedin.com/company/oreilly-media
Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/oreillymedia
Watch us on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/oreillymedia
Acknowledgments
When we started writing this book, we were warned by many people that we faced a
hard task. A book like this has a lot of moving parts, and due to its comprehensive
view of the field of data engineering, it required a ton of research, interviews, discus‐
sions, and deep thinking. We won’t claim to have captured every nuance of data
engineering, but we hope that the results resonate with you. Numerous individuals
contributed to our efforts, and we’re grateful for the support we received from many
experts.
First, thanks to our amazing crew of technical reviewers. They slogged through many
readings and gave invaluable (and often ruthlessly blunt) feedback. This book would
be a fraction of itself without their efforts. In no particular order, we give endless
thanks to Bill Inmon, Andy Petrella, Matt Sharp, Tod Hanseman, Chris Tabb, Danny
Lebzyon, Martin Kleppman, Scott Lorimor, Nick Schrock, Lisa Steckman, Veronika
Durgin, and Alex Woolford.
Second, we’ve had a unique opportunity to talk with the leading experts in the field
of data on our live shows, podcasts, meetups, and endless private calls. Their ideas
helped shape our book. There are too many people to name individually, but we’d
like to give shoutouts to Jordan Tigani, Zhamak Dehghani, Ananth Packkildurai,
xviii
|
Preface

Shruti Bhat, Eric Tschetter, Benn Stancil, Kevin Hu, Michael Rogove, Ryan Wright,
Adi Polak, Shinji Kim, Andreas Kretz, Egor Gryaznov, Chad Sanderson, Julie Price,
Matt Turck, Monica Rogati, Mars Lan, Pardhu Gunnam, Brian Suk, Barr Moses, Lior
Gavish, Bruno Aziza, Gian Merlino, DeVaris Brown, Todd Beauchene, Tudor Girba,
Scott Taylor, Ori Rafael, Lee Edwards, Bryan Offutt, Ollie Hughes, Gilbert Eijkelen‐
boom, Chris Bergh, Fabiana Clemente, Andreas Kretz, Ori Reshef, Nick Singh, Mark
Balkenende, Kenten Danas, Brian Olsen, Lior Gavish, Rhaghu Murthy, Greg Coquillo,
David Aponte, Demetrios Brinkmann, Sarah Catanzaro, Michel Tricot, Levi Davis,
Ted Walker, Carlos Kemeny, Josh Benamram, Chanin Nantasenamat, George Firican,
Jordan Goldmeir, Minhaaj Rehmam, Luigi Patruno, Vin Vashista, Danny Ma, Jesse
Anderson, Alessya Visnjic, Vishal Singh, Dave Langer, Roy Hasson, Todd Odess, Che
Sharma, Scott Breitenother, Ben Taylor, Thom Ives, John Thompson, Brent Dykes,
Josh Tobin, Mark Kosiba, Tyler Pugliese, Douwe Maan, Martin Traverso, Curtis
Kowalski, Bob Davis, Koo Ping Shung, Ed Chenard, Matt Sciorma, Tyler Folkman,
Jeff Baird, Tejas Manohar, Paul Singman, Kevin Stumpf, Willem Pineaar, and Michael
Del Balso from Tecton, Emma Dahl, Harpreet Sahota, Ken Jee, Scott Taylor, Kate
Strachnyi, Kristen Kehrer, Taylor Miller, Abe Gong, Ben Castleton, Ben Rogojan,
David Mertz, Emmanuel Raj, Andrew Jones, Avery Smith, Brock Cooper, Jeff Larson,
Jon King, Holden Ackerman, Miriah Peterson, Felipe Hoffa, David Gonzalez, Richard
Wellman, Susan Walsh, Ravit Jain, Lauren Balik, Mikiko Bazeley, Mark Freeman,
Mike Wimmer, Alexey Shchedrin, Mary Clair Thompson, Julie Burroughs, Jason
Pedley, Freddy Drennan, Jason Pedley, Kelly and Matt Phillipps, Brian Campbell,
Faris Chebib, Dylan Gregerson, Ken Myers, Jake Carter, Seth Paul, Ethan Aaron, and
many others.
If you’re not mentioned specifically, don’t take it personally. You know who you are.
Let us know and we’ll get you on the next edition.
We’d also like to thank the Ternary Data team (Colleen McAuley, Maike Wells, Patrick
Dahl, Aaron Hunsaker, and others), our students, and the countless people around
the world who’ve supported us. It’s a great reminder the world is a very small place.
Working with the O’Reilly crew was amazing! Special thanks to Jess Haberman
for having confidence in us during the book proposal process, our amazing and
extremely patient development editors Nicole Taché and Michele Cronin for invalua‐
ble editing, feedback, and support. Thank you also to the superb production team at
O’Reilly (Greg and crew).
Joe would like to thank his family—Cassie, Milo, and Ethan—for letting him write a
book. They had to endure a ton, and Joe promises to never write a book again. ;)
Matt would like to thank his friends and family for their enduring patience and
support. He’s still hopeful that Seneca will deign to give a five-star review after a good
deal of toil and missed family time around the holidays.
Preface
|
xix


