# Data Engineering Defined

Paginas: 29-29

1 “Data Engineering and Its Main Concepts,” AlexSoft, last updated August 26, 2021, https://oreil.ly/e94py.
2 ETL stands for extract, transform, load, a common pattern we cover in the book.
3 Jesse Anderson, “The Two Types of Data Engineering,” June 27, 2018, https://oreil.ly/dxDt6.
4 Maxime Beauchemin, “The Rise of the Data Engineer,” January 20, 2017, https://oreil.ly/kNDmd.
5 Lewis Gavin, What Is Data Engineering? (Sebastapol, CA: O’Reilly, 2020), https://oreil.ly/ELxLi.
—From “Data Engineering and Its Main Concepts” by AlexSoft1
The first type of data engineering is SQL-focused. The work and primary storage of
the data is in relational databases. All of the data processing is done with SQL or a
SQL-based language. Sometimes, this data processing is done with an ETL tool.2 The
second type of data engineering is Big Data–focused. The work and primary storage of
the data is in Big Data technologies like Hadoop, Cassandra, and HBase. All of the data
processing is done in Big Data frameworks like MapReduce, Spark, and Flink. While
SQL is used, the primary processing is done with programming languages like Java,
Scala, and Python.
—Jesse Anderson3
In relation to previously existing roles, the data engineering field could be thought of
as a superset of business intelligence and data warehousing that brings more elements
from software engineering. This discipline also integrates specialization around the
operation of so-called “big data” distributed systems, along with concepts around the
extended Hadoop ecosystem, stream processing, and in computation at scale.
—Maxime Beauchemin4
Data engineering is all about the movement, manipulation, and management of data.
—Lewis Gavin5
Wow! It’s entirely understandable if you’ve been confused about data engineering.
That’s only a handful of definitions, and they contain an enormous range of opinions
about the meaning of data engineering.
Data Engineering Defined
When we unpack the common threads of how various people define data engineer‐
ing, an obvious pattern emerges: a data engineer gets data, stores it, and prepares it
for consumption by data scientists, analysts, and others. We define data engineering
and data engineer as follows:
Data engineering is the development, implementation, and maintenance of systems
and processes that take in raw data and produce high-quality, consistent information
that supports downstream use cases, such as analysis and machine learning. Data engi‐
neering is the intersection of security, data management, DataOps, data architecture,
orchestration, and software engineering. A data engineer manages the data engineering
lifecycle, beginning with getting data from source systems and ending with serving
data for use cases, such as analysis or machine learning.
4
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

