# Direct Network Connections to the Clouds

Paginas: 426-426

hops through routers. Both physical distance and network hops can increase latency
and decrease performance. Major cloud providers continue to add new regions.
In general, regions support fast, low-latency networking between zones; networking
performance between zones will be worse than within a single zone and incur nomi‐
nal data egress charges between VMs. Network data movement between regions is
even slower and may incur higher egress fees.
In general, object storage is a regional resource. Some data may pass between zones to
reach a virtual machine, but this is mainly invisible to cloud customers, and there are
no direct networking charges for this. (Of course, customers are still responsible for
object access costs.)
Despite regions’ geo-redundant design, many major cloud service failures have affec‐
ted entire regions, an example of correlated failure. Engineers often deploy code and
configuration to entire regions; the regional failures we’ve observed have generally
resulted from code or configuration problems occurring at the regional level.
GCP-Specific Networking and Multiregional Redundancy
GCP offers a handful of unique abstractions that engineers should be aware of if they
work in this cloud. The first is the multiregion, a layer in the resource hierarchy; a
multiregion contains multiple regions. Current multiregions are US (data centers in
the United States), EU (data centers in European Union member states), and ASIA.
Several GCP resources support multiregions, including Cloud Storage and BigQuery.
Data is stored in multiple zones within the multiregion in a geo-redundant manner so
that it should remain available in the event of a regional failure. Multiregional storage
is also designed to deliver data efficiently to users within the multiregion without
setting up complex replication processes between regions. In addition, there are no
data egress fees for VMs in a multiregion to access Cloud Storage data in the same
multiregion.
Cloud customers can set up multiregional infrastructure on AWS or Azure. In the
case of databases or object storage, this involves duplicating data between regions to
increase redundancy and put data closer to users.
Google also essentially owns significantly more global-scale networking resources
than other cloud providers, something it offers to its customers as premium-tier
networking. Premium-tier networking allows traffic between zones and regions to
pass entirely over Google-owned networks without traversing the public internet.
Direct Network Connections to the Clouds
Each major public cloud offers enhanced connectivity options, allowing customers to
integrate their networks with a cloud region or VPC directly. For example, Amazon
Cloud Networking
|
401

