# Serialization

Paginas: 220-220

Current CPUs virtually always employ the von Neumann architecture, with code and
data stored together in the same memory space. However, CPUs typically also sup‐
port the option to disable code execution in specific pages of memory for enhanced
security. This feature is reminiscent of the Harvard architecture, which separates code
and data.
RAM is used in various storage and processing systems and can be used for caching,
data processing, or indexes. Several databases treat RAM as a primary storage layer,
allowing ultra-fast read and write performance. In these applications, data engineers
must always keep in mind the volatility of RAM. Even if data stored in memory is
replicated across a cluster, a power outage that brings down several nodes could cause
data loss. Architectures intended to durably store data may use battery backups and
automatically dump all data to disk in the event of power loss.
Networking and CPU
Why are we mentioning networking and CPU as raw ingredients for storing data?
Increasingly, storage systems are distributed to enhance performance, durability, and
availability. We mentioned specifically that individual magnetic disks offer relatively
low-transfer performance, but a cluster of disks parallelizes reads for significant per‐
formance scaling. While storage standards such as redundant arrays of independent
disks (RAID) parallelize on a single server, cloud object storage clusters operate at
a much larger scale, with disks distributed across a network and even multiple data
centers and availability zones.
Availability zones are a standard cloud construct consisting of compute environments
with independent power, water, and other resources. Multizonal storage enhances
both the availability and durability of data.
CPUs handle the details of servicing requests, aggregating reads, and distributing
writes. Storage becomes a web application with an API, backend service components,
and load balancing. Network device performance and network topology are key
factors in realizing high performance.
Data engineers need to understand how networking will affect the systems they
build and use. Engineers constantly balance the durability and availability achieved
by spreading out data geographically versus the performance and cost benefits of
keeping storage in a small geographic area and close to data consumers or writers.
Appendix B covers cloud networking and major relevant ideas.
Serialization
Serialization is another raw storage ingredient and a critical element of database
design. The decisions around serialization will inform how well queries perform
across a network, CPU overhead, query latency, and more. Designing a data lake, for
Raw Ingredients of Data Storage
|
195

