# Data Management

Paginas: 356-356

database must be controlled in the same way as you normally control access to your
organization’s systems and environments.
Keep credentials hidden; avoid copying and pasting passwords, access tokens, or
other credentials into code or unencrypted files. It’s shockingly common to see code
in GitHub repositories with database usernames and passwords pasted directly in
the codebase! It goes without saying, don’t share passwords with other users. Finally,
never allow unsecured or unencrypted data to traverse the public internet.
Data Management
Though data management is essential at the source system stage (and every other
stage of the data engineering lifecycle), it’s especially critical at the transformation
stage. Transformation inherently creates new datasets that need to be managed. As
with other stages of the data engineering lifecycle, it’s critical to involve all stake‐
holders in data models and transformations and manage their expectations. Also,
make sure everyone agrees on naming conventions that align with the respective
business definitions of the data. Proper naming conventions should be reflected in
easy-to-understand field names. Users can also check in a data catalog for more
clarity on what the field means when it was created, who maintains the dataset, and
other relevant information.
Accounting for definitional accuracy is key at the transformation stage. Does the
transformation adhere to the expected business logic? Increasingly, the notion of
a semantic or metrics layer that sits independent of transformations is becoming
popular. Instead of enforcing business logic within the transformation at runtime,
why not keep these definitions as a standalone stage before your transformation
layer? While it’s still early days, expect to see semantic and metrics layers becoming
more popular and commonplace in data engineering and data management.
Because transformations involve mutating data, it’s critical to ensure that the data
you’re using is free of defects and represents ground truth. If MDM is an option at
your company, pursue its implementation. Conformed dimensions and other trans‐
formations rely on MDM to preserve data’s original integrity and ground truth. If
MDM isn’t possible, work with upstream stakeholders who control the data to ensure
that any data you’re transforming is correct and complies with the agreed-upon
business logic.
Data transformations make it potentially difficult to know how a dataset was derived
along the same lines. In Chapter 6, we discussed data catalogs. As we transform data,
data lineage tools become invaluable. Data lineage tools help both data engineers,
who must understand previous transformation steps as they create new transforma‐
tions, and analysts, who need to understand where data came from as they run
queries and build reports.
Undercurrents
|
331

