# Modeling Streaming Data

Paginas: 332-333

Table 8-21. An example of denormalized data
OrderID
OrderItems
CustomerID
Customer
Name
OrderDate
Site
Site
Region
100
[{
"sku": 1,
"price": 50,
"quantity": 1,
"name:":
"Thingamajig"
}, {
"sku": 2,
"price": 25,
"quantity": 2,
"name:":
"Whatchamacallit"
}]
5
Joe Reis
2022-03-01
abc.com
US
What If You Don’t Model Your Data?
You also have the option of not modeling your data. In this case, just query data
sources directly. This pattern is often used, especially when companies are just getting
started and want to get quick insights or share analytics with their users. While it
allows you to get answers to various questions, you should consider the following:
• If I don’t model my data, how do I know the results of my queries are consistent?
•
• Do I have proper definitions of business logic in the source system, and will my
•
query produce truthful answers?
• What query load am I putting on my source systems, and how does this impact
•
users of these systems?
At some point, you’ll probably gravitate toward a stricter batch data model paradigm
and a dedicated data architecture that doesn’t rely on the source systems for the heavy
lifting.
Modeling Streaming Data
Whereas many data-modeling techniques are well established for batch, this is not
the case for streaming data. Because of the unbounded and continuous nature of
streaming data, translating batch techniques like Kimball to a streaming paradigm
is tricky, if not impossible. For example, given a stream of data, how would you
continuously update a Type-2 slowly changing dimension without bringing your data
warehouse to its knees?
Data Modeling
|
307

The world is evolving from batch to streaming and from on premises to the cloud.
The constraints of the older batch methods no longer apply. That said, big questions
remain about how to model data to balance the need for business logic against fluid
schema changes, fast-moving data, and self-service. What is the streaming equivalent
of the preceding batch data model approaches? There isn’t (yet) a consensus approach
on streaming data modeling. We spoke with many experts in streaming data systems,
many of whom told us that traditional batch-oriented data modeling doesn’t apply to
streaming. A few suggested the Data Vault as an option for streaming data modeling.
As you may recall, two main types of streams exist: event streams and CDC. Most
of the time, the shape of the data in these streams is semistructured, such as JSON.
The challenge with modeling streaming data is that the payload’s schema might
change on a whim. For example, suppose you have an IoT device that recently
upgraded its firmware and introduced a new field. In that case, it’s possible that your
downstream destination data warehouse or processing pipeline isn’t aware of this
change and breaks. That’s not great. As another example, a CDC system might recast
a field as a different type—say, a string instead of an International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) datetime format. Again, how does the destination handle this
seemingly random change?
The streaming data experts we’ve talked with overwhelmingly suggest you anticipate
changes in the source data and keep a flexible schema. This means there’s no rigid
data model in the analytical database. Instead, assume the source systems are provid‐
ing the correct data with the right business definition and logic, as it exists today. And
because storage is cheap, store the recent streaming and saved historical data in a way
they can be queried together. Optimize for comprehensive analytics against a dataset
with a flexible schema. Furthermore, instead of reacting to reports, why not create
automation that responds to anomalies and changes in the streaming data instead?
The world of data modeling is changing, and we believe a sea change will soon occur
in data model paradigms. These new approaches will likely incorporate metrics and
semantic layers, data pipelines, and traditional analytics workflows in a streaming
layer that sits directly on top of the source system. Since data is being generated in
real time, the notion of artificially separating source and analytics systems into two
distinct buckets may not make as much sense as when data moved more slowly and
predictably. Time will tell…
We have more to say on the future of streaming data in Chapter 11.
308
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

