# Solid-State Drive

Paginas: 218-218

commercial drives spinning at 7,200 revolutions per minute (RPM) seek time, and
rotational latency, leads to over four milliseconds of overall average latency (time to
access a selected piece of data). A fourth limitation is input/output operations per
second (IOPS), critical for transactional databases. A magnetic drive ranges from 50
to 500 IOPS.
Various tricks can improve latency and transfer speed. Using a higher rotational
speed can increase transfer rate and decrease rotational latency. Limiting the radius
of the disk platter or writing data into only a narrow band on the disk reduces seek
time. However, none of these techniques makes magnetic drives remotely competitive
with SSDs for random access lookups. SSDs can deliver data with significantly lower
latency, higher IOPS, and higher transfer speeds, partially because there is no physi‐
cally rotating disk or magnetic head to wait for.
As mentioned earlier, magnetic disks are still prized in data centers for their low data-
storage costs. In addition, magnetic drives can sustain extraordinarily high transfer
rates through parallelism. This is the critical idea behind cloud object storage: data
can be distributed across thousands of disks in clusters. Data-transfer rates go up
dramatically by reading from numerous disks simultaneously, limited primarily by
network performance rather than disk transfer rate. Thus, network components and
CPUs are also key raw ingredients in storage systems, and we will return to these
topics shortly.
Solid-State Drive
Solid-state drives (SSDs) store data as charges in flash memory cells. SSDs eliminate
the mechanical components of magnetic drives; the data is read by purely electronic
means. SSDs can look up random data in less than 0.1 ms (100 microseconds). In
addition, SSDs can scale both data-transfer speeds and IOPS by slicing storage into
partitions with numerous storage controllers running in parallel. Commercial SSDs
can support transfer speeds of many gigabytes per second and tens of thousands of
IOPS.
Because of these exceptional performance characteristics, SSDs have revolutionized
transactional databases and are the accepted standard for commercial deployments of
OLTP systems. SSDs allow relational databases such as PostgreSQL, MySQL, and SQL
Server to handle thousands of transactions per second.
However, SSDs are not currently the default option for high-scale analytics data
storage. Again, this comes down to cost. Commercial SSDs typically cost 20–30 cents
(USD) per gigabyte of capacity, nearly 10 times the cost per capacity of a magnetic
drive. Thus, object storage on magnetic disks has emerged as the leading option for
large-scale data storage in data lakes and cloud data warehouses.
Raw Ingredients of Data Storage
|
193

