# The Cloud-Scale Data OS and Improved Interoperability

Paginas: 406-407

event-driven applications in minutes, using mainstream languages such as Python,
Java, and Go running atop Linux behind the scenes. Engineers wishing to use Apache
Airflow can adopt Google’s Cloud Composer or AWS’s managed Airflow service.
Managed Kubernetes allows us to build highly scalable microservice architectures.
And so on.
This fundamentally changes the conversation around open source code. In many
cases, managed open source is just as easy to use as its proprietary service com‐
petitors. Companies with highly specialized needs can also deploy managed open
source, then move to self-managed open source later if they need to customize the
underlying code.
Another significant trend is the growth in popularity of off-the-shelf data connectors
(at the time of this writing, popular ones include Fivetran and Airbyte). Data engi‐
neers have traditionally spent a lot of time and resources building and maintaining
plumbing to connect to external data sources. The new generation of managed
connectors is highly compelling, even for highly technical engineers, as they begin to
recognize the value of recapturing time and mental bandwidth for other projects. API
connectors will be an outsourced problem so that data engineers can focus on the
unique issues that drive their businesses.
The intersection of red-hot competition in the data-tooling space with a growing
number of data engineers means data tools will continue decreasing in complexity
while adding even more functionality and features. This simplification will only grow
the practice of data engineering, as more and more companies find opportunities to
discover value in data.
The Cloud-Scale Data OS and Improved Interoperability
Let’s briefly review some of the inner workings of (single-device) operating systems,
then tie this back to data and the cloud. Whether you’re utilizing a smartphone,
a laptop, an application server, or a smart thermostat, these devices rely on an
operating system to provide essential services and orchestrate tasks and processes.
For example, I can see roughly 300 processes running on the MacBook Pro that I’m
typing on. Among other things, I see services such as WindowServer (responsible for
providing windows in a graphical interface) and CoreAudio (tasked with providing
low-level audio capabilities).
When I run an application on this machine, it doesn’t directly access sound and
graphics hardware. Instead, it sends commands to operating system services to
draw windows and play sound. These commands are issued to standard APIs; a
specification tells software developers how to communicate with operating system
services. The operating system orchestrates a boot process to provide these services,
starting each service in the correct order based on dependencies among them; it also
The Cloud-Scale Data OS and Improved Interoperability
|
381

1 Benn Stancil, “The Data OS,” benn.substack, September 3, 2021, https://oreil.ly/HetE9.
maintains services by monitoring them and restarting them in the correct order in
case of a failure.
Now let’s return to data in the cloud. The simplified data services that we’ve men‐
tioned throughout this book (e.g., Google Cloud BigQuery, Azure Blob Storage,
Snowflake, and AWS Lambda) resemble operating system services, but at a much
larger scale, running across many machines rather than a single server.
Now that these simplified services are available, the next frontier of evolution for this
notion of a cloud data operating system will happen at a higher level of abstraction.
Benn Stancil called for the emergence of standardized data APIs for building data
pipelines and data applications.1 We predict that data engineering will gradually
coalesce around a handful of data interoperability standards. Object storage in the
cloud will grow in importance as a batch interface layer between various data services.
New generation file formats (such as Parquet and Avro) are already taking over
for the purposes of cloud data interchange, significantly improving on the dreadful
interoperability of CSV and the poor performance of raw JSON.
Another critical ingredient of a data API ecosystem is a metadata catalog that
describes schemas and data hierarchies. Currently, this role is largely filled by the
legacy Hive Metastore. We expect that new entrants will emerge to take its place.
Metadata will play a crucial role in data interoperability, both across applications and
systems and across clouds and networks, driving automation and simplification.
We will also see significant improvements in the scaffolding that manages cloud
data services. Apache Airflow has emerged as the first truly cloud-oriented data
orchestration platform, but we are on the cusp of significant enhancement. Airflow
will grow in capabilities, building on its massive mindshare. New entrants such as
Dagster and Prefect will compete by rebuilding orchestration architecture from the
ground up.
This next generation of data orchestration platforms will feature enhanced data inte‐
gration and data awareness. Orchestration platforms will integrate with data catalog‐
ing and lineage, becoming significantly more data-aware in the process. In addition,
orchestration platforms will build IaC capabilities (similar to Terraform) and code
deployment features (like GitHub Actions and Jenkins). This will allow engineers to
code a pipeline and then pass it to the orchestration platform to automatically build,
test, deploy, and monitor. Engineers will be able to write infrastructure specifications
directly into their pipelines; missing infrastructure and services (e.g., Snowflake data‐
bases, Databricks clusters, and Amazon Kinesis streams) will be deployed the first
time the pipeline runs.
382
|
Chapter 11: The Future of Data Engineering

