# Brownfield Versus Greenfield Projects

Paginas: 121-122

An event-driven architecture (Figure 3-9) embraces the event-driven workflow and
uses this to communicate across various services. The advantage of an event-driven
architecture is that it distributes the state of an event across multiple services. This
is helpful if a service goes offline, a node fails in a distributed system, or you’d
like multiple consumers or services to access the same events. Anytime you have
loosely coupled services, this is a candidate for event-driven architecture. Many of
the examples we describe later in this chapter incorporate some form of event-driven
architecture.
You’ll learn more about event-driven streaming and messaging systems in Chapter 5.
Figure 3-9. In an event-driven architecture, events are passed between loosely coupled
services
Brownfield Versus Greenfield Projects
Before you design your data architecture project, you need to know whether you’re
starting with a clean slate or redesigning an existing architecture. Each type of project
requires assessing trade-offs, albeit with different considerations and approaches.
Projects roughly fall into two buckets: brownfield and greenfield.
Brownfield projects
Brownfield projects often involve refactoring and reorganizing an existing architecture
and are constrained by the choices of the present and past. Because a key part
of architecture is change management, you must figure out a way around these
limitations and design a path forward to achieve your new business and technical
objectives. Brownfield projects require a thorough understanding of the legacy archi‐
tecture and the interplay of various old and new technologies. All too often, it’s
easy to criticize a prior team’s work and decisions, but it is far better to dig deep,
ask questions, and understand why decisions were made. Empathy and context go a
long way in helping you diagnose problems with the existing architecture, identify
opportunities, and recognize pitfalls.
You’ll need to introduce your new architecture and technologies and deprecate the
old stuff at some point. Let’s look at a couple of popular approaches. Many teams
jump headfirst into an all-at-once or big-bang overhaul of the old architecture, often
figuring out deprecation as they go. Though popular, we don’t advise this approach
96
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

20 Martin Fowler, “StranglerFigApplication,” June 29, 2004, https://oreil.ly/PmqxB.
21 Mike Loukides, “Resume Driven Development,” O’Reilly Radar, October 13, 2004, https://oreil.ly/BUHa8.
because of the associated risks and lack of a plan. This path often leads to disaster,
with many irreversible and costly decisions. Your job is to make reversible, high-ROI
decisions.
A popular alternative to a direct rewrite is the strangler pattern: new systems slowly
and incrementally replace a legacy architecture’s components.20 Eventually, the legacy
architecture is completely replaced. The attraction to the strangler pattern is its
targeted and surgical approach of deprecating one piece of a system at a time.
This allows for flexible and reversible decisions while assessing the impact of the
deprecation on dependent systems.
It’s important to note that deprecation might be “ivory tower” advice and not practi‐
cal or achievable. Eradicating legacy technology or architecture might be impossible
if you’re at a large organization. Someone, somewhere, is using these legacy compo‐
nents. As someone once said, “Legacy is a condescending way to describe something
that makes money.”
If you can deprecate, understand there are numerous ways to deprecate your old
architecture. It is critical to demonstrate value on the new platform by gradually
increasing its maturity to show evidence of success and then follow an exit plan to
shut down old systems.
Greenfield projects
On the opposite end of the spectrum, a greenfield project allows you to pioneer a
fresh start, unconstrained by the history or legacy of a prior architecture. Greenfield
projects tend to be easier than brownfield projects, and many data architects and
engineers find them more fun! You have the opportunity to try the newest and
coolest tools and architectural patterns. What could be more exciting?
You should watch out for some things before getting too carried away. We see teams
get overly exuberant with shiny object syndrome. They feel compelled to reach for the
latest and greatest technology fad without understanding how it will impact the value
of the project. There’s also a temptation to do resume-driven development, stacking
up impressive new technologies without prioritizing the project’s ultimate goals.21
Always prioritize requirements over building something cool.
Whether you’re working on a brownfield or greenfield project, always focus on the
tenets of “good” data architecture. Assess trade-offs, make flexible and reversible
decisions, and strive for positive ROI.
Major Architecture Concepts
|
97

