# Schema

Paginas: 244-244

Data catalog use cases
Data catalogs have both organizational and technical use cases. Data catalogs make
metadata easily available to systems. For instance, a data catalog is a key ingredient of
the data lakehouse, allowing table discoverability for queries.
Organizationally, data catalogs allow business users, analysts, data scientists, and
engineers to search for data to answer questions. Data catalogs streamline cross-
organizational communications and collaboration.
Data Sharing
Data sharing allows organizations and individuals to share specific data and carefully
defined permissions with specific entities. Data sharing allows data scientists to
share data from a sandbox with their collaborators within an organization. Across
organizations, data sharing facilitates collaboration between partner businesses. For
example, an ad tech company can share advertising data with its customers.
A cloud multitenant environment makes interorganizational collaboration much eas‐
ier. However, it also presents new security challenges. Organizations must carefully
control policies that govern who can share data with whom to prevent accidental
exposure or deliberate exfiltration.
Data sharing is a core feature of many cloud data platforms. See Chapter 5 for a more
extensive discussion of data sharing.
Schema
What is the expected form of the data? What is the file format? Is it structured,
semistructured, or unstructured? What data types are expected? How does the data
fit into a larger hierarchy? Is it connected to other data through shared keys or other
relationships?
Note that schema need not be relational. Rather, data becomes more useful when we
have as much information about its structure and organization. For images stored in
a data lake, this schema information might explain the image format, resolution, and
the way the images fit into a larger hierarchy.
Schema can function as a sort of Rosetta stone, instructions that tell us how to read
the data. Two major schema patterns exist: schema on write and schema on read.
Schema on write is essentially the traditional data warehouse pattern: a table has an
integrated schema; any writes to the table must conform. To support schema on
write, a data lake must integrate a schema metastore.
With schema on read, the schema is dynamically created when data is written, and
a reader must determine the schema when reading the data. Ideally, schema on read
is implemented using file formats that implement built-in schema information, such
Big Ideas and Trends in Storage
|
219

