# Streaming Storage

Paginas: 237-237

instruct other nodes to replicate these file blocks so that they again reach the correct
replication factor. Thus, the probability of losing data is very low, barring a correlated
failure (e.g., an asteroid hitting the data center).
Hadoop is not simply a storage system. Hadoop combines compute resources with
storage nodes to allow in-place data processing. This was originally achieved using
the MapReduce programming model, which we discuss in Chapter 8.
Hadoop is dead. Long live Hadoop!
We often see claims that Hadoop is dead. This is only partially true. Hadoop is
no longer a hot, bleeding-edge technology. Many Hadoop ecosystem tools such as
Apache Pig are now on life support and primarily used to run legacy jobs. The pure
MapReduce programming model has fallen by the wayside. HDFS remains widely
used in various applications and organizations.
Hadoop still appears in many legacy installations. Many organizations that adopted
Hadoop during the peak of the big data craze have no immediate plans to migrate to
newer technologies. This is a good choice for companies that run massive (thousand-
node) Hadoop clusters and have the resources to maintain on-premises systems
effectively. Smaller companies may want to reconsider the cost overhead and scale
limitations of running a small Hadoop cluster against migrating to cloud solutions.
In addition, HDFS is a key ingredient of many current big data engines, such as
Amazon EMR. In fact, Apache Spark is still commonly run on HDFS clusters. We
discuss this in more detail in “Separation of Compute from Storage” on page 220.
Streaming Storage
Streaming data has different storage requirements than nonstreaming data. In the
case of message queues, stored data is temporal and expected to disappear after a
certain duration. However, distributed, scalable streaming frameworks like Apache
Kafka now allow extremely long-duration streaming data retention. Kafka supports
indefinite data retention by pushing old, infrequently accessed messages down to
object storage. Kafka competitors (including Amazon Kinesis, Apache Pulsar, and
Google Cloud Pub/Sub) also support long data retention.
Closely related to data retention in these systems is the notion of replay. Replay
allows a streaming system to return a range of historical stored data. Replay is the
standard data-retrieval mechanism for streaming storage systems. Replay can be used
to run batch queries over a time range or to reprocess data in a streaming pipeline.
Chapter 7 covers replay in more depth.
Other storage engines have emerged for real-time analytics applications. In some
sense, transactional databases emerged as the first real-time query engines; data
becomes visible to queries as soon as it is written. However, these databases have
212
|
Chapter 6: Storage

