# Block Storage

Paginas: 227-229

Block Storage
Fundamentally, block storage is the type of raw storage provided by SSDs and mag‐
netic disks. In the cloud, virtualized block storage is the standard for VMs. These
block storage abstractions allow fine control of storage size, scalability, and data
durability beyond that offered by raw disks.
In our earlier discussion of SSDs and magnetic disks, we mentioned that with these
random-access devices, the operating system can seek, read, and write any data
on the disk. A block is the smallest addressable unit of data supported by a disk.
This was often 512 bytes of usable data on older disks, but it has now grown to
4,096 bytes for most current disks, making writes less fine-grained but dramatically
reducing the overhead of managing blocks. Blocks typically contain extra bits for
error detection/correction and other metadata.
Blocks on magnetic disks are geometrically arranged on a physical platter. Two blocks
on the same track can be read without moving the head, while reading two blocks on
separate tracks requires a seek. Seek time can occur between blocks on an SSD, but
this is infinitesimal compared to the seek time for magnetic disk tracks.
Block storage applications
Transactional database systems generally access disks at a block level to lay out
data for optimal performance. For row-oriented databases, this originally meant that
rows of data were written as continuous streams; the situation has grown more
complicated with the arrival of SSDs and their associated seek-time performance
improvements, but transactional databases still rely on the high random access per‐
formance offered by direct access to a block storage device.
Block storage also remains the default option for operating system boot disks on
cloud VMs. The block device is formatted much as it would be directly on a physical
disk, but the storage is usually virtualized. (See “Cloud virtualized block storage” on
page 203.)
RAID
RAID stands for redundant array of independent disks, as noted previously. RAID
simultaneously controls multiple disks to improve data durability, enhance perfor‐
mance, and combine capacity from multiple drives. An array can appear to the
operating system as a single block device. Many encoding and parity schemes are
available, depending on the desired balance between enhanced effective bandwidth
and higher fault tolerance (tolerance for many disk failures).
202
|
Chapter 6: Storage

Storage area network
Storage area network (SAN) systems provide virtualized block storage devices over
a network, typically from a storage pool. SAN abstraction can allow fine-grained
storage scaling and enhance performance, availability, and durability. You might
encounter SAN systems if you’re working with on-premises storage systems; you
might also encounter a cloud version of SAN, as in the next subsection.
Cloud virtualized block storage
Cloud virtualized block storage solutions are similar to SAN but free engineers from
dealing with SAN clusters and networking details. We’ll look at Amazon Elastic Block
Store (EBS) as a standard example; other public clouds have similar offerings. EBS is
the default storage for Amazon EC2 virtual machines; other cloud providers also treat
virtualized object storage as a key component of their VM offerings.
EBS offers several tiers of service with different performance characteristics. Gener‐
ally, EBS performance metrics are given in IOPS and throughput (transfer speed).
The higher performance tiers of EBS storage are backed by SSD disks, while magnetic
disk-backed storage offers lower IOPS but costs less per gigabyte.
EBS volumes store data separate from the instance host server but in the same zone to
support high performance and low latency (Figure 6-5). This allows EBS volumes to
persist when an EC2 instance shuts down, when a host server fails, or even when the
instance is deleted. EBS storage is suitable for applications such as databases, where
data durability is a high priority. In addition, EBS replicates all data to at least two
separate host machines, protecting data if a disk fails.
Figure 6-5. EBS volumes replicate data to multiple hosts and disks for high durability
and availability, but are not resilient to the failure of an availability zone
EBS storage virtualization also supports several advanced features. For example,
EBS volumes allow instantaneous point-in-time snapshots while the drive is used.
Although it still takes some time for the snapshot to be replicated to S3, EBS can
effectively freeze the state of data blocks when the snapshot is taken, while allowing
the client machine to continue using the disk. In addition, snapshots after the initial
full backup are differential; only changed blocks are written to S3 to minimize storage
costs and backup time.
Data Storage Systems
|
203

EBS volumes are also highly scalable. At the time of this writing, some EBS volume
classes can scale up to 64 TiB, 256,000 IOPS, and 4,000 MiB/s.
Local instance volumes
Cloud providers also offer block storage volumes that are physically attached to the
host server running a virtual machine. These storage volumes are generally very low
cost (included with the price of the VM in the case of Amazon’s EC2 instance store)
and provide low latency and high IOPS.
Instance store volumes (Figure 6-6) behave essentially like a disk physically attached
to a server in a data center. One key difference is that when a VM shuts down or is
deleted, the contents of the locally attached disk are lost, whether or not this event
was caused by intentional user action. This ensures that a new virtual machine cannot
read disk contents belonging to a different customer.
Figure 6-6. Instance store volumes offer high performance and low cost but do not
protect data in the event of disk failure or VM shutdown
Locally attached disks support none of the advanced virtualization features offered by
virtualized storage services like EBS. The locally attached disk is not replicated, so a
physical disk failure can lose or corrupt data even if the host VM continues running.
Furthermore, locally attached volumes do not support snapshots or other backup
features.
Despite these limitations, locally attached disks are extremely useful. In many cases,
we use disks as a local cache and hence don’t need all the advanced virtualization
features of a service like EBS. For example, suppose we’re running AWS EMR on
EC2 instances. We may be running an ephemeral job that consumes data from
S3, stores it temporarily in the distributed filesystem running across the instances,
processes the data, and writes the results back to S3. The EMR filesystem builds in
replication and redundancy and is serving as a cache rather than permanent storage.
The EC2 instance store is a perfectly suitable solution in this case and can enhance
performance since data can be read and processed locally without flowing over a
network (see Figure 6-7).
204
|
Chapter 6: Storage

