# Our Advice

Paginas: 167-167

tools is dramatically more complex than orchestrating one. Orchestration becomes
the glue that binds data stack modules together.
The Distributed Monolith Pattern
The distributed monolith pattern is a distributed architecture that still suffers from
many of the limitations of monolithic architecture. The basic idea is that one runs a
distributed system with different services to perform different tasks. Still, services and
nodes share a common set of dependencies or a common codebase.
One standard example is a traditional Hadoop cluster. A Hadoop cluster can simulta‐
neously host several frameworks, such as Hive, Pig, or Spark. The cluster also has
many internal dependencies. In addition, the cluster runs core Hadoop components:
Hadoop common libraries, HDFS, YARN, and Java. In practice, a cluster often has
one version of each component installed.
A standard on-prem Hadoop system entails managing a common environment that
works for all users and all jobs. Managing upgrades and installations is a significant
challenge. Forcing jobs to upgrade dependencies risks breaking them; maintaining
two versions of a framework entails extra complexity.
Some modern Python-based orchestration technologies—e.g., Apache Airflow—also
suffer from this problem. While they utilize a highly decoupled and asynchronous
architecture, every service runs the same codebase with the same dependencies. Any
executor can execute any task, so a client library for a single task run in one DAG
must be installed on the whole cluster. Orchestrating many tools entails installing
client libraries for a host of APIs. Dependency conflicts are a constant problem.
One solution to the problems of the distributed monolith is ephemeral infrastructure
in a cloud setting. Each job gets its own temporary server or cluster installed with
dependencies. Each cluster remains highly monolithic, but separating jobs dramati‐
cally reduces conflicts. For example, this pattern is now quite common for Spark with
services like Amazon EMR and Google Cloud Dataproc.
A second solution is to properly decompose the distributed monolith into multiple
software environments using containers. We have more to say on containers in
“Serverless Versus Servers” on page 143.
Our Advice
While monoliths are attractive because of ease of understanding and reduced com‐
plexity, this comes at a high cost. The cost is the potential loss of flexibility, opportu‐
nity cost, and high-friction development cycles.
Here are some things to consider when evaluating monoliths versus modular options:
142
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

