# Technical Responsibilities

Paginas: 44-45

control costs, and continuously learn will set you apart from the data engineers who
rely solely on their technical abilities to carry their career.
Technical Responsibilities
You must understand how to build architectures that optimize performance and cost
at a high level, using prepackaged or homegrown components. Ultimately, architec‐
tures and constituent technologies are building blocks to serve the data engineering
lifecycle. Recall the stages of the data engineering lifecycle:
• Generation
•
• Storage
•
• Ingestion
•
• Transformation
•
• Serving
•
The undercurrents of the data engineering lifecycle are the following:
• Security
•
• Data management
•
• DataOps
•
• Data architecture
•
• Orchestration
•
• Software engineering
•
Zooming in a bit, we discuss some of the tactical data and technology skills you’ll
need as a data engineer in this section; we discuss these in more detail in subsequent
chapters.
People often ask, should a data engineer know how to code? Short answer: yes. A data
engineer should have production-grade software engineering chops. We note that the
nature of software development projects undertaken by data engineers has changed
fundamentally in the last few years. Fully managed services now replace a great deal
of low-level programming effort previously expected of engineers, who now use man‐
aged open source, and simple plug-and-play software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings.
For example, data engineers now focus on high-level abstractions or writing pipelines
as code within an orchestration framework.
Even in a more abstract world, software engineering best practices provide a competi‐
tive advantage, and data engineers who can dive into the deep architectural details of
a codebase give their companies an edge when specific technical needs arise. In short,
a data engineer who can’t write production-grade code will be severely hindered, and
Data Engineering Skills and Activities
|
19

we don’t see this changing anytime soon. Data engineers remain software engineers,
in addition to their many other roles.
What languages should a data engineer know? We divide data engineering program‐
ming languages into primary and secondary categories. At the time of this writing,
the primary languages of data engineering are SQL, Python, a Java Virtual Machine
(JVM) language (usually Java or Scala), and bash:
SQL
The most common interface for databases and data lakes. After briefly being
sidelined by the need to write custom MapReduce code for big data processing,
SQL (in various forms) has reemerged as the lingua franca of data.
Python
The bridge language between data engineering and data science. A growing
number of data engineering tools are written in Python or have Python APIs.
It’s known as “the second-best language at everything.” Python underlies popular
data tools such as pandas, NumPy, Airflow, sci-kit learn, TensorFlow, PyTorch,
and PySpark. Python is the glue between underlying components and is fre‐
quently a first-class API language for interfacing with a framework.
JVM languages such as Java and Scala
Prevalent for Apache open source projects such as Spark, Hive, and Druid.
The JVM is generally more performant than Python and may provide access to
lower-level features than a Python API (for example, this is the case for Apache
Spark and Beam). Understanding Java or Scala will be beneficial if you’re using a
popular open source data framework.
bash
The command-line interface for Linux operating systems. Knowing bash com‐
mands and being comfortable using CLIs will significantly improve your pro‐
ductivity and workflow when you need to script or perform OS operations.
Even today, data engineers frequently use command-line tools like awk or sed
to process files in a data pipeline or call bash commands from orchestration
frameworks. If you’re using Windows, feel free to substitute PowerShell for bash.
The Unreasonable Effectiveness of SQL
The advent of MapReduce and the big data era relegated SQL to passé status. Since
then, various developments have dramatically enhanced the utility of SQL in the data
engineering lifecycle. Spark SQL, Google BigQuery, Snowflake, Hive, and many other
data tools can process massive amounts of data by using declarative, set-theoretic
SQL semantics. SQL is also supported by many streaming frameworks, such as
Apache Flink, Beam, and Kafka. We believe that competent data engineers should be
highly proficient in SQL.
20
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

