# DataOps

Paginas: 357-357

Finally, what impact does regulatory compliance have on your data model and trans‐
formations? Are sensitive fields data masked or obfuscated if necessary? Do you have
the ability to delete data in response to deletion requests? Does your data lineage
tracking allow you to see data derived from deleted data and rerun transformations to
remove data downstream of raw sources?
DataOps
With queries and transformations, DataOps has two areas of concern: data and
systems. You need to monitor and be alerted for changes or anomalies in these
areas. The field of data observability is exploding right now, with a big focus on
data reliability. There’s even a recent job title called data reliability engineer. This
section emphasizes data observability and data health, which focuses on the query
and transformation stage.
Let’s start with the data side of DataOps. When you query data, are the inputs and
outputs correct? How do you know? If this query is saved to a table, is the schema
correct? How about the shape of the data and related statistics such as min/max
values, null counts, and more? You should run data-quality tests on the input datasets
and the transformed dataset, which will ensure that the data meets the expectations of
upstream and downstream users. If there’s a data-quality issue in the transformation,
you should have the ability to flag this issue, roll back the changes, and investigate the
root cause.
Now let’s look at the Ops part of DataOps. How are the systems performing? Monitor
metrics such as query queue length, query concurrency, memory usage, storage
utilization, network latency, and disk I/O. Use metric data to spot bottlenecks and
poor-performing queries that might be candidates for refactoring and tuning. If the
query is perfectly fine, you’ll have a good idea of where to tune the database itself
(for instance, by clustering a table for faster lookup performance). Or, you may need
to upgrade the database’s compute resources. Today’s cloud and SaaS databases give
you a ton of flexibility for quickly upgrading (and downgrading) your system. Take
a data-driven approach and use your observability metrics to pinpoint whether you
have a query or a systems-related issue.
The shift toward SaaS-based analytical databases changes the cost profile of data
consumption. In the days of on-premises data warehouses, the system and licenses
were purchased up front, with no additional usage cost. Whereas traditional data
engineers would focus on performance optimization to squeeze the maximum utility
out of their expensive purchases, data engineers working with cloud data warehouses
that charge on a consumption basis need to focus on cost management and cost
optimization. This is the practice of FinOps (see Chapter 4).
332
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

