# Error Handling and Dead-Letter Queues

Paginas: 274-274

Replay
Replay allows readers to request a range of messages from the history, allowing you
to rewind your event history to a particular point in time. Replay is a key capability
in many streaming ingestion platforms and is particularly useful when you need
to reingest and reprocess data for a specific time range. For example, RabbitMQ
typically deletes messages after all subscribers consume them. Kafka, Kinesis, and
Pub/Sub all support event retention and replay.
Time to Live
How long will you preserve your event record? A key parameter is maximum message
retention time, also known as the time to live (TTL). TTL is usually a configuration
you’ll set for how long you want events to live before they are acknowledged and
ingested. Any unacknowledged event that’s not ingested after its TTL expires auto‐
matically disappears. This is helpful to reduce backpressure and unnecessary event
volume in your event-ingestion pipeline.
Find the right balance of TTL impact on our data pipeline. An extremely short TTL
(milliseconds or seconds) might cause most messages to disappear before processing.
A very long TTL (several weeks or months) will create a backlog of many unpro‐
cessed messages, resulting in long wait times.
Let’s look at how some popular platforms handle TTL at the time of this writing.
Google Cloud Pub/Sub supports retention periods of up to 7 days. Amazon Kinesis
Data Streams retention can be turned up to 365 days. Kafka can be configured for
indefinite retention, limited by available disk space. (Kafka also supports the option
to write older messages to cloud object storage, unlocking virtually unlimited storage
space and retention.)
Message Size
Message size is an easily overlooked issue: you must ensure that the streaming frame‐
work in question can handle the maximum expected message size. Amazon Kinesis
supports a maximum message size of 1 MB. Kafka defaults to this maximum size but
can be configured for a maximum of 20 MB or more. (Configurability may vary on
managed service platforms.)
Error Handling and Dead-Letter Queues
Sometimes events aren’t successfully ingested. Perhaps an event is sent to a nonexis‐
tent topic or message queue, the message size may be too large, or the event has
expired past its TTL. Events that cannot be ingested need to be rerouted and stored in
a separate location called a dead-letter queue.
Message and Stream Ingestion Considerations
|
249

