# Principle 4: Architecture Is Leadership

Paginas: 105-105

Principle 3: Architect for Scalability
Scalability in data systems encompasses two main capabilities. First, scalable systems
can scale up to handle significant quantities of data. We might need to spin up a
large cluster to train a model on a petabyte of customer data or scale out a streaming
ingestion system to handle a transient load spike. Our ability to scale up allows us to
handle extreme loads temporarily. Second, scalable systems can scale down. Once the
load spike ebbs, we should automatically remove capacity to cut costs. (This is related
to principle 9.) An elastic system can scale dynamically in response to load, ideally in
an automated fashion.
Some scalable systems can also scale to zero: they shut down completely when not in
use. Once the large model-training job completes, we can delete the cluster. Many ser‐
verless systems (e.g., serverless functions and serverless online analytical processing,
or OLAP, databases) can automatically scale to zero.
Note that deploying inappropriate scaling strategies can result in overcomplicated
systems and high costs. A straightforward relational database with one failover node
may be appropriate for an application instead of a complex cluster arrangement.
Measure your current load, approximate load spikes, and estimate load over the next
several years to determine if your database architecture is appropriate. If your startup
grows much faster than anticipated, this growth should also lead to more available
resources to rearchitect for scalability.
Principle 4: Architecture Is Leadership
Data architects are responsible for technology decisions and architecture descrip‐
tions and disseminating these choices through effective leadership and training.
Data architects should be highly technically competent but delegate most individual
contributor work to others. Strong leadership skills combined with high technical
competence are rare and extremely valuable. The best data architects take this duality
seriously.
Note that leadership does not imply a command-and-control approach to technology.
It was not uncommon in the past for architects to choose one proprietary database
technology and force every team to house their data there. We oppose this approach
because it can significantly hinder current data projects. Cloud environments allow
architects to balance common component choices with flexibility that enables inno‐
vation within projects.
80
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

