# Storage

Paginas: 63-63

Storage
You need a place to store data. Choosing a storage solution is key to success in
the rest of the data lifecycle, and it’s also one of the most complicated stages of the
data lifecycle for a variety of reasons. First, data architectures in the cloud often lever‐
age several storage solutions. Second, few data storage solutions function purely as
storage, with many supporting complex transformation queries; even object storage
solutions may support powerful query capabilities—e.g., Amazon S3 Select. Third,
while storage is a stage of the data engineering lifecycle, it frequently touches on other
stages, such as ingestion, transformation, and serving.
Storage runs across the entire data engineering lifecycle, often occurring in multiple
places in a data pipeline, with storage systems crossing over with source systems,
ingestion, transformation, and serving. In many ways, the way data is stored impacts
how it is used in all of the stages of the data engineering lifecycle. For example, cloud
data warehouses can store data, process data in pipelines, and serve it to analysts.
Streaming frameworks such as Apache Kafka and Pulsar can function simultaneously
as ingestion, storage, and query systems for messages, with object storage being a
standard layer for data transmission.
Evaluating storage systems: Key engineering considerations
Here are a few key engineering questions to ask when choosing a storage system for a
data warehouse, data lakehouse, database, or object storage:
• Is this storage solution compatible with the architecture’s required write and read
•
speeds?
• Will storage create a bottleneck for downstream processes?
•
• Do you understand how this storage technology works? Are you utilizing the
•
storage system optimally or committing unnatural acts? For instance, are you
applying a high rate of random access updates in an object storage system? (This
is an antipattern with significant performance overhead.)
• Will this storage system handle anticipated future scale? You should consider all
•
capacity limits on the storage system: total available storage, read operation rate,
write volume, etc.
• Will downstream users and processes be able to retrieve data in the required
•
service-level agreement (SLA)?
• Are you capturing metadata about schema evolution, data flows, data lineage,
•
and so forth? Metadata has a significant impact on the utility of data. Meta‐
data represents an investment in the future, dramatically enhancing discoverabil‐
ity and institutional knowledge to streamline future projects and architecture
changes.
38
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

