# APIs

Paginas: 199-200

While time-series data such as orders, shipments, logs, and so forth have been stored
in relational databases for ages, these data sizes and volumes were often tiny. As
data grew faster and bigger, new special-purpose databases were needed. Time-series
databases address the needs of growing, high-velocity data volumes from IoT, event
and application logs, ad tech, and fintech, among many other use cases. Often these
workloads are write-heavy. As a result, time-series databases often utilize memory
buffering to support fast writes and reads.
We should distinguish between measurement and event-based data, common in
time-series databases. Measurement data is generated regularly, such as temperature
or air-quality sensors. Event-based data is irregular and created every time an event
occurs—for instance, when a motion sensor detects movement.
The schema for a time series typically contains a timestamp and a small set of fields.
Because the data is time-dependent, the data is ordered by the timestamp. This makes
time-series databases suitable for operational analytics but not great for BI use cases.
Joins are not common, though some quasi time-series databases such as Apache
Druid support joins. Many time-series databases are available, both as open source
and paid options.
APIs
APIs are now a standard and pervasive way of exchanging data in the cloud, for SaaS
platforms, and between internal company systems. Many types of API interfaces exist
across the web, but we are principally interested in those built around HTTP, the
most popular type on the web and in the cloud.
REST
We’ll first talk about REST, currently the dominant API paradigm. As noted in
Chapter 4, REST stands for representational state transfer. This set of practices and
philosophies for building HTTP web APIs was laid out by Roy Fielding in 2000 in
a PhD dissertation. REST is built around HTTP verbs, such as GET and PUT; in
practice, modern REST uses only a handful of the verb mappings outlined in the
original dissertation.
One of the principal ideas of REST is that interactions are stateless. Unlike in a Linux
terminal session, there is no notion of a session with associated state variables such
as a working directory; each REST call is independent. REST calls can change the
system’s state, but these changes are global, applying to the full system rather than a
current session.
174
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

5 For one example, see Michael S. Mikowski, “RESTful APIs: The Big Lie,” August 10, 2015, https://oreil.ly/rqja3.
Critics point out that REST is in no way a full specification.5 REST stipulates basic
properties of interactions, but developers utilizing an API must gain a significant
amount of domain knowledge to build applications or pull data effectively.
We see great variation in levels of API abstraction. In some cases, APIs are merely
a thin wrapper over internals that provides the minimum functionality required to
protect the system from user requests. In other examples, a REST data API is a
masterpiece of engineering that prepares data for analytics applications and supports
advanced reporting.
A couple of developments have simplified setting up data-ingestion pipelines from
REST APIs. First, data providers frequently supply client libraries in various lan‐
guages, especially in Python. Client libraries remove much of the boilerplate labor of
building API interaction code. Client libraries handle critical details such as authenti‐
cation and map fundamental methods into accessible classes.
Second, various services and open source libraries have emerged to interact with
APIs and manage data synchronization. Many SaaS and open source vendors provide
off-the-shelf connectors for common APIs. Platforms also simplify the process of
building custom connectors as required.
There are numerous data APIs without client libraries or out-of-the-box connector
support. As we emphasize throughout the book, engineers would do well to reduce
undifferentiated heavy lifting by using off-the-shelf tools. However, low-level plumb‐
ing tasks still consume many resources. At virtually any large company, data engineers
will need to deal with the problem of writing and maintaining custom code to
pull data from APIs, which requires understanding the structure of the data as
provided, developing appropriate data-extraction code, and determining a suitable
data synchronization strategy.
GraphQL
GraphQL was created at Facebook as a query language for application data and an
alternative to generic REST APIs. Whereas REST APIs generally restrict your queries
to a specific data model, GraphQL opens up the possibility of retrieving multiple data
models in a single request. This allows for more flexible and expressive queries than
with REST. GraphQL is built around JSON and returns data in a shape resembling
the JSON query.
There’s something of a holy war between REST and GraphQL, with some engineering
teams partisans of one or the other and some using both. In reality, engineers will
encounter both as they interact with source systems.
Source System Practical Details
|
175

