# Synchronous Versus Asynchronous Ingestion

Paginas: 263-263

data engineering lifecycle data will be broken into batches. Once data reaches a batch
process, the batch frequency becomes a bottleneck for all downstream processing.
In addition, streaming systems are the best fit for many data source types. In IoT
applications, the typical pattern is for each sensor to write events or measurements
to streaming systems as they happen. While this data can be written directly into a
database, a streaming ingestion platform such as Amazon Kinesis or Apache Kafka
is a better fit for the application. Software applications can adopt similar patterns
by writing events to a message queue as they happen rather than waiting for an
extraction process to pull events and state information from a backend database. This
pattern works exceptionally well for event-driven architectures already exchanging
messages through queues. And again, streaming architectures generally coexist with
batch processing.
Synchronous Versus Asynchronous Ingestion
With synchronous ingestion, the source, ingestion, and destination have complex
dependencies and are tightly coupled. As you can see in Figure 7-5, each stage of
the data engineering lifecycle has processes A, B, and C directly dependent upon one
another. If process A fails, processes B and C cannot start; if process B fails, process
C doesn’t start. This type of synchronous workflow is common in older ETL systems,
where data extracted from a source system must then be transformed before being
loaded into a data warehouse. Processes downstream of ingestion can’t start until all
data in the batch has been ingested. If the ingestion or transformation process fails,
the entire process must be rerun.
Figure 7-5. A synchronous ingestion process runs as discrete batch steps
Here’s a mini case study of how not to design your data pipelines. At one company,
the transformation process itself was a series of dozens of tightly coupled synchro‐
nous workflows, with the entire process taking over 24 hours to finish. If any step
of that transformation pipeline failed, the whole transformation process had to be
restarted from the beginning! In this instance, we saw process after process fail, and
because of nonexistent or cryptic error messages, fixing the pipeline was a game of
whack-a-mole that took over a week to diagnose and cure. Meanwhile, the business
didn’t have updated reports during that time. People weren’t happy.
238
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

