# Data Definitions and Logic

Paginas: 367-367

is left to perform the heavy lifting of providing ad hoc reports and maintaining
dashboards.
Why is self-service data so hard? The answer is nuanced, but it generally involves
understanding the end user. If the user is an executive who needs to understand
how the business is doing, that person probably just wants a predefined dashboard
of clear and actionable metrics. The executive will likely ignore any self-serve tools
for creating custom data views. If reports provoke further questions, they might have
analysts at their disposal to pursue a deeper investigation. On the other hand, a user
who is an analyst might already be pursuing self-service analytics via more powerful
tools such as SQL. Self-service analytics through a BI layer is not useful. The same
considerations apply to data science. Although granting self-service ML to “citizen
data scientists” has been a goal of many automated ML vendors, adoption is still
nascent for the same reasons as self-service analytics. In these two extreme cases, a
self-service data product is a wrong tool for the job.
Successful self-service data projects boil down to having the right audience. Identify
the self-service users and the “job” they want to do. What are they trying to accom‐
plish by using a self-service data product versus partnering with a data analyst to
get the job done? A group of executives with a background in data forms an ideal
audience for self-service; they likely want to slice and dice data themselves without
needing to dust off their languishing SQL skills. Business leaders willing to invest the
time to learn data skills through a company initiative and training program could also
realize significant value from self-service.
Determine how you will provide data to this group. What are their time requirements
for new data? What happens if they inevitably want more data or change the scope
of what’s required from self-service? More data often means more questions, which
requires more data. You’ll need to anticipate the growing needs of your self-service
users. You also need to understand the fine balance between flexibility and guardrails
that will help your audience find value and insights without incorrect results and
confusion.
Data Definitions and Logic
As we’ve emphatically discussed, the utility of data in an organization is ultimately
derived from its correctness and trustworthiness. Critically, the correctness of data
goes beyond faithful reproduction of event values from source systems. Data correct‐
ness also encompasses proper data definitions and logic; these must be baked into
data through all lifecycle stages, from source systems to data pipelines to BI tools and
much more.
Data definition refers to the meaning of data as it is understood throughout the orga‐
nization. For example, customer has a precise meaning within a company and across
342
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

