# Shell

Paginas: 283-283

Major cloud data warehouses are highly optimized for direct file export. For example,
Snowflake, BigQuery, Redshift, and others support direct export to object storage in
various formats.
Practical Issues with Common File Formats
Engineers should also be aware of the file formats to export. CSV is still ubiquitous
and highly error prone at the time of this writing. Namely, CSV’s default delimiter is
also one of the most familiar characters in the English language—the comma! But it
gets worse.
CSV is by no means a uniform format. Engineers must stipulate the delimiter, quote
characters, and escaping to appropriately handle the export of string data. CSV also
doesn’t natively encode schema information or directly support nested structures.
CSV file encoding and schema information must be configured in the target system
to ensure appropriate ingestion. Autodetection is a convenience feature provided in
many cloud environments but is inappropriate for production ingestion. As a best
practice, engineers should record CSV encoding and schema details in file metadata.
More robust and expressive export formats include Parquet, Avro, Arrow, and ORC
or JSON. These formats natively encode schema information and handle arbitrary
string data with no particular intervention. Many of them also handle nested data
structures natively so that JSON fields are stored using internal nested structures
rather than simple strings. For columnar databases, columnar formats (Parquet,
Arrow, ORC) allow more efficient data export because columns can be directly
transcoded between formats. These formats are also generally more optimized for
query engines. The Arrow file format is designed to map data directly into processing
engine memory, providing high performance in data lake environments.
The disadvantage of these newer formats is that many of them are not natively
supported by source systems. Data engineers are often forced to work with CSV data
and then build robust exception handling and error detection to ensure data quality
on ingestion. See Appendix A for a more extensive discussion of file formats.
Shell
The shell is an interface by which you may execute commands to ingest data. The
shell can be used to script workflows for virtually any software tool, and shell script‐
ing is still used extensively in ingestion processes. A shell script might read data
from a database, reserialize it into a different file format, upload it to object storage,
and trigger an ingestion process in a target database. While storing data on a single
instance or server is not highly scalable, many of our data sources are not particularly
large, and such approaches work just fine.
258
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

