# File Storage

Paginas: 224-226

Soft-state
The state of the transaction is fuzzy, and it’s uncertain whether the transaction is
committed or uncommitted.
Eventual consistency
At some point, reading data will return consistent values.
If reading data in an eventually consistent system is unreliable, why use it? Eventual
consistency is a common trade-off in large-scale, distributed systems. If you want
to scale horizontally (across multiple nodes) to process data in high volumes, then
eventually, consistency is often the price you’ll pay. Eventual consistency allows you
to retrieve data quickly without verifying that you have the latest version across all
nodes.
The opposite of eventual consistency is strong consistency. With strong consistency,
the distributed database ensures that writes to any node are first distributed with a
consensus and that any reads against the database return consistent values. You’ll use
strong consistency when you can tolerate higher query latency and require correct
data every time you read from the database.
Generally, data engineers make decisions about consistency in three places. First, the
database technology itself sets the stage for a certain level of consistency. Second,
configuration parameters for the database will have an impact on consistency. Third,
databases often support some consistency configuration at an individual query level.
For example, DynamoDB supports eventually consistent reads and strongly consis‐
tent reads. Strongly consistent reads are slower and consume more resources, so it is
best to use them sparingly, but they are available when consistency is required.
You should understand how your database handles consistency. Again, data engineers
are tasked with understanding technology deeply and using it to solve problems
appropriately. A data engineer might need to negotiate consistency requirements
with other technical and business stakeholders. Note that this is both a technology
and organizational problem; ensure that you have gathered requirements from your
stakeholders and choose your technologies appropriately.
File Storage
We deal with files every day, but the notion of a file is somewhat subtle. A file is a
data entity with specific read, write, and reference characteristics used by software
and operating systems. We define a file to have the following characteristics:
Finite length
A file is a finite-length stream of bytes.
Data Storage Systems
|
199

Append operations
We can append bytes to the file up to the limits of the host storage system.
Random access
We can read from any location in the file or write updates to any location.
Object storage behaves much like file storage but with key differences. While we set
the stage for object storage by discussing file storage first, object storage is arguably
much more important for the type of data engineering you’ll do today. We will
forward-reference the object storage discussion extensively over the next few pages.
File storage systems organize files into a directory tree. The directory reference for a
file might look like this:
/Users/matthewhousley/output.txt
When this file reference is passed to the operating system, it starts at the root
directory /, finds Users, matthewhousley, and finally output.txt. Working from
the left, each directory is contained inside a parent directory, until we finally reach
the file output.txt. This example uses Unix semantics, but Windows file reference
semantics are similar. The filesystem stores each directory as metadata about the files
and directories that it contains. This metadata consists of the name of each entity,
relevant permission details, and a pointer to the actual entity. To find a file on disk,
the operating system looks at the metadata at each hierarchy level and follows the
pointer to the next subdirectory entity until finally reaching the file itself.
Note that other file-like data entities generally don’t necessarily have all these proper‐
ties. For example, objects in object storage support only the first characteristic, finite
length, but are still extremely useful. We discuss this in “Object Storage” on page 205.
In cases where file storage paradigms are necessary for a pipeline, be careful with
state and try to use ephemeral environments as much as possible. Even if you must
process files on a server with an attached disk, use object storage for intermediate
storage between processing steps. Try to reserve manual, low-level file processing for
one-time ingestion steps or the exploratory stages of pipeline development.
Local disk storage
The most familiar type of file storage is an operating system–managed filesystem
on a local disk partition of SSD or magnetic disk. New Technology File System
(NTFS) and ext4 are popular filesystems on Windows and Linux, respectively. The
operating system handles the details of storing directory entities, files, and metadata.
Filesystems are designed to write data to allow for easy recovery in the event of power
loss during a write, though any unwritten data will still be lost.
200
|
Chapter 6: Storage

Local filesystems generally support full read after write consistency; reading immedi‐
ately after a write will return the written data. Operating systems also employ various
locking strategies to manage concurrent writing attempts to a file.
Local disk filesystems may also support advanced features such as journaling, snap‐
shots, redundancy, the extension of the filesystem across multiple disks, full disk
encryption, and compression. In “Block Storage” on page 202, we also discuss RAID.
Network-attached storage
Network-attached storage (NAS) systems provide a file storage system to clients over
a network. NAS is a prevalent solution for servers; they quite often ship with built-in
dedicated NAS interface hardware. While there are performance penalties to access‐
ing the filesystem over a network, significant advantages to storage virtualization
also exist, including redundancy and reliability, fine-grained control of resources,
storage pooling across multiple disks for large virtual volumes, and file sharing across
multiple machines. Engineers should be aware of the consistency model provided by
their NAS solution, especially when multiple clients will potentially access the same
data.
A popular alternative to NAS is a storage area network (SAN), but SAN systems
provide block-level access without the filesystem abstraction. We cover SAN systems
in “Block Storage” on page 202.
Cloud filesystem services
Cloud filesystem services provide a fully managed filesystem for use with multiple
cloud VMs and applications, potentially including clients outside the cloud environ‐
ment. Cloud filesystems should not be confused with standard storage attached
to VMs—generally, block storage with a filesystem managed by the VM operating
system. Cloud filesystems behave much like NAS solutions, but the details of net‐
working, managing disk clusters, failures, and configuration are fully handled by the
cloud vendor.
For example, Amazon Elastic File System (EFS) is an extremely popular example of
a cloud filesystem service. Storage is exposed through the NFS 4 protocol, which
is also used by NAS systems. EFS provides automatic scaling and pay-per-storage
pricing with no advanced storage reservation required. The service also provides local
read-after-write consistency (when reading from the machine that performed the
write). It also offers open-after-close consistency across the full filesystem. In other
words, once an application closes a file, subsequent readers will see changes saved to
the closed file.
Data Storage Systems
|
201

