# Data Architecture Defined

Paginas: 100-100

5 The Open Group, TOGAF Version 9.1, https://oreil.ly/A1H67.
6 DAMA - DMBOK: Data Management Body of Knowledge, 2nd ed. (Technics Publications, 2017).
Let’s reiterate one central point in our enterprise architecture definition: enterprise
architecture balances flexibility and trade-offs. This isn’t always an easy balance, and
architects must constantly assess and reevaluate with the recognition that the world
is dynamic. Given the pace of change that enterprises are faced with, organizations—
and their architecture—cannot afford to stand still.
Data Architecture Defined
Now that you understand enterprise architecture, let’s dive into data architecture by
establishing a working definition that will set the stage for the rest of the book. Data
architecture is a subset of enterprise architecture, inheriting its properties: processes,
strategy, change management, and evaluating trade-offs. Here are a couple of defini‐
tions of data architecture that influence our definition.
TOGAF’s definition
TOGAF defines data architecture as follows:5
A description of the structure and interaction of the enterprise’s major types and sour‐
ces of data, logical data assets, physical data assets, and data management resources.
DAMA’s definition
The DAMA DMBOK defines data architecture as follows:6
Identifying the data needs of the enterprise (regardless of structure) and designing and
maintaining the master blueprints to meet those needs. Using master blueprints to
guide data integration, control data assets, and align data investments with business
strategy.
Our definition
Considering the preceding two definitions and our experience, we have crafted our
definition of data architecture:
Data architecture is the design of systems to support the evolving data needs of an
enterprise, achieved by flexible and reversible decisions reached through a careful
evaluation of trade-offs.
How does data architecture fit into data engineering? Just as the data engineering life‐
cycle is a subset of the data lifecycle, data engineering architecture is a subset of gen‐
eral data architecture. Data engineering architecture is the systems and frameworks
What Is Data Architecture?
|
75

