# Databases and File Export

Paginas: 282-282

We suggest using managed connector platforms instead of creating and managing
your connectors. Vendors and OSS projects each typically have hundreds of prebuilt
connector options and can easily create custom connectors. The creation and man‐
agement of data connectors is largely undifferentiated heavy lifting these days and
should be outsourced whenever possible.
Moving Data with Object Storage
Object storage is a multitenant system in public clouds, and it supports storing
massive amounts of data. This makes object storage ideal for moving data in and
out of data lakes, between teams, and transferring data between organizations. You
can even provide short-term access to an object with a signed URL, giving a user
temporary permission.
In our view, object storage is the most optimal and secure way to handle file
exchange. Public cloud storage implements the latest security standards, has a robust
track record of scalability and reliability, accepts files of arbitrary types and sizes, and
provides high-performance data movement. We discussed object storage much more
extensively in Chapter 6.
EDI
Another practical reality for data engineers is electronic data interchange (EDI). The
term is vague enough to refer to any data movement method. It usually refers to
somewhat archaic means of file exchange, such as by email or flash drive. Data
engineers will find that some data sources do not support more modern means of
data transport, often because of archaic IT systems or human process limitations.
Engineers can at least enhance EDI through automation. For example, they can set
up a cloud-based email server that saves files onto company object storage as soon
as they are received. This can trigger orchestration processes to ingest and process
data. This is much more robust than an employee downloading the attached file and
manually uploading it to an internal system, which we still frequently see.
Databases and File Export
Engineers should be aware of how the source database systems handle file export.
Export involves large data scans that significantly load the database for many transac‐
tional systems. Source system engineers must assess when these scans can be run
without affecting application performance and might opt for a strategy to mitigate the
load. Export queries can be broken into smaller exports by querying over key ranges
or one partition at a time. Alternatively, a read replica can reduce load. Read replicas
are especially appropriate if exports happen many times a day and coincide with a
high source system load.
Ways to Ingest Data
|
257

