# ETL Versus ELT

Paginas: 271-271

Snapshot or Differential Extraction
Data engineers must choose whether to capture full snapshots of a source system
or differential (sometimes called incremental) updates. With full snapshots, engineers
grab the entire current state of the source system on each update read. With the
differential update pattern, engineers can pull only the updates and changes since the
last read from the source system. While differential updates are ideal for minimizing
network traffic and target storage usage, full snapshot reads remain extremely com‐
mon because of their simplicity.
File-Based Export and Ingestion
Data is quite often moved between databases and systems using files. Data is serial‐
ized into files in an exchangeable format, and these files are provided to an ingestion
system. We consider file-based export to be a push-based ingestion pattern. This is
because data export and preparation work is done on the source system side.
File-based ingestion has several potential advantages over a direct database connec‐
tion approach. It is often undesirable to allow direct access to backend systems
for security reasons. With file-based ingestion, export processes are run on the
data-source side, giving source system engineers complete control over what data
gets exported and how the data is preprocessed. Once files are done, they can be
provided to the target system in various ways. Common file-exchange methods are
object storage, secure file transfer protocol (SFTP), electronic data interchange (EDI),
or secure copy (SCP).
ETL Versus ELT
Chapter 3 introduced ETL and ELT, both extremely common ingestion, storage, and
transformation patterns you’ll encounter in batch workloads. The following are brief
definitions of the extract and load parts of ETL and ELT:
Extract
This means getting data from a source system. While extract seems to imply
pulling data, it can also be push based. Extraction may also require reading
metadata and schema changes.
Load
Once data is extracted, it can either be transformed (ETL) before loading it into
a storage destination or simply loaded into storage for future transformation.
When loading data, you should be mindful of the type of system you’re loading,
the schema of the data, and the performance impact of loading.
We cover ETL and ELT in greater detail in Chapter 8.
246
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

