# How to Evaluate Server Versus Serverless

Paginas: 170-170

12 Examples include OpenFaaS, Knative, and Google Cloud Run.
than persistent services.12 This gives users the simplicity of AWS Lambda with the
full flexibility of a container environment instead of the highly restrictive Lambda
runtime. And services such as AWS Fargate and Google App Engine run containers
without managing a compute cluster required for Kubernetes. These services also
fully isolate containers, preventing the security issues associated with multitenancy.
Abstraction will continue working its way across the data stack. Consider the impact
of Kubernetes on cluster management. While you can manage your Kubernetes
cluster—and many engineering teams do so—even Kubernetes is widely available as a
managed service. What comes after Kubernetes? We’re as excited as you to find out.
How to Evaluate Server Versus Serverless
Why would you want to run your own servers instead of using serverless? There are a
few reasons. Cost is a big factor. Serverless makes less sense when the usage and cost
exceed the ongoing cost of running and maintaining a server (Figure 4-6). However,
at a certain scale, the economic benefits of serverless may diminish, and running
servers becomes more attractive.
Figure 4-6. Cost of serverless versus utilizing a server
Customization, power, and control are other major reasons to favor servers over
serverless. Some serverless frameworks can be underpowered or limited for certain
use cases. Here are some things to consider when using servers, particularly in the
cloud, where server resources are ephemeral:
Expect servers to fail.
Server failure will happen. Avoid using a “special snowflake” server that is overly
customized and brittle, as this introduces a glaring vulnerability in your architec‐
ture. Instead, treat servers as ephemeral resources that you can create as needed
and then delete. If your application requires specific code to be installed on the
Serverless Versus Servers
|
145

