# Ways to Ingest Data

Paginas: 275-275

A dead-letter queue segregates problematic events from events that can be accepted
by the consumer (Figure 7-12). If events are not rerouted to a dead-letter queue, these
erroneous events risk blocking other messages from being ingested. Data engineers
can use a dead-letter queue to diagnose why event ingestions errors occur and solve
data pipeline problems, and might be able to reprocess some messages in the queue
after fixing the underlying cause of errors.
Figure 7-12. “Good” events are passed to the consumer, whereas “bad” events are stored
in a dead-letter queue
Consumer Pull and Push
A consumer subscribing to a topic can get events in two ways: push and pull. Let’s
look at the ways some streaming technologies pull and push data. Kafka and Kinesis
support only pull subscriptions. Subscribers read messages from a topic and confirm
when they have been processed. In addition to pull subscriptions, Pub/Sub and
RabbitMQ support push subscriptions, allowing these services to write messages to a
listener.
Pull subscriptions are the default choice for most data engineering applications, but
you may want to consider push capabilities for specialized applications. Note that
pull-only message ingestion systems can still push if you add an extra layer to handle
this.
Location
It is often desirable to integrate streaming across several locations for enhanced
redundancy and to consume data close to where it is generated. As a general rule,
the closer your ingestion is to where data originates, the better your bandwidth and
latency. However, you need to balance this against the costs of moving data between
regions to run analytics on a combined dataset. As always, data egress costs can spiral
quickly. Do a careful evaluation of the trade-offs as you build out your architecture.
Ways to Ingest Data
Now that we’ve described some of the significant patterns underlying batch and
streaming ingestion, let’s focus on ways you can ingest data. Although we will cite
250
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

