# “Good” Data Architecture

Paginas: 101-101

7 Mark Richards and Neal Ford, Fundamentals of Software Architecture (Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly, 2020),
https://oreil.ly/hpCp0.
that make up the key sections of the data engineering lifecycle. We’ll use data architec‐
ture interchangeably with data engineering architecture throughout this book.
Other aspects of data architecture that you should be aware of are operational and
technical (Figure 3-2). Operational architecture encompasses the functional require‐
ments of what needs to happen related to people, processes, and technology. For
example, what business processes does the data serve? How does the organization
manage data quality? What is the latency requirement from when the data is pro‐
duced to when it becomes available to query? Technical architecture outlines how data
is ingested, stored, transformed, and served along the data engineering lifecycle. For
instance, how will you move 10 TB of data every hour from a source database to your
data lake? In short, operational architecture describes what needs to be done, and
technical architecture details how it will happen.
Figure 3-2. Operational and technical data architecture
Now that we have a working definition of data architecture, let’s cover the elements of
“good” data architecture.
“Good” Data Architecture
Never shoot for the best architecture, but rather the least worst architecture.
—Mark Richards and Neal Ford7
According to Grady Booch, “Architecture represents the significant design decisions
that shape a system, where significant is measured by cost of change.” Data architects
aim to make significant decisions that will lead to good architecture at a basic level.
What do we mean by “good” data architecture? To paraphrase an old cliche, you
know good when you see it. Good data architecture serves business requirements with
a common, widely reusable set of building blocks while maintaining flexibility and
making appropriate trade-offs. Bad architecture is authoritarian and tries to cram a
bunch of one-size-fits-all decisions into a big ball of mud.
76
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

