# Additional Resources

Paginas: 176-177

lacks support for many data-native constructs, such as schema management, lineage,
and cataloging; and it is challenging to develop and test Airflow workflows.
We do not attempt an exhaustive discussion of Airflow alternatives here but just
mention a couple of the key orchestration contenders at the time of writing. Prefect
and Dagster aim to solve some of the problems discussed previously by rethinking
components of the Airflow architecture. Will there be other orchestration frame‐
works and technologies not discussed here? Plan on it.
We highly recommend that anyone choosing an orchestration technology study the
options discussed here. They should also acquaint themselves with activity in the
space, as new developments will certainly occur by the time you read this.
Software Engineering
As a data engineer, you should strive for simplification and abstraction across the
data stack. Buy or use prebuilt open source solutions whenever possible. Eliminating
undifferentiated heavy lifting should be your big goal. Focus your resources—custom
coding and tooling—on areas that give you a solid competitive advantage. For exam‐
ple, is hand-coding a database connection between your production database and
your cloud data warehouse a competitive advantage for you? Probably not. This is
very much a solved problem. Pick an off-the-shelf solution (open source or managed
SaaS) instead. The world doesn’t need the millionth +1 database-to-cloud data ware‐
house connector.
On the other hand, why do customers buy from you? Your business likely has
something special about the way it does things. Maybe it’s a particular algorithm that
powers your fintech platform. By abstracting away a lot of the redundant workflows
and processes, you can continue chipping away, refining, and customizing the things
that move the needle for the business.
Conclusion
Choosing the right technologies is no easy task, especially when new technologies
and patterns emerge daily. Today is possibly the most confusing time in history for
evaluating and selecting technologies. Choosing technologies is a balance of use case,
cost, build versus buy, and modularization. Always approach technology the same
way as architecture: assess trade-offs and aim for reversible decisions.
Additional Resources
• Cloud FinOps by J. R. Storment and Mike Fuller (O’Reilly)
•
• “Cloud Infrastructure: The Definitive Guide for Beginners” by Matthew Smith
•
Conclusion
|
151

• “The Cost of Cloud, a Trillion Dollar Paradox” by Sarah Wang and Martin
•
Casado
• FinOps Foundation’s “What Is FinOps” web page
•
• “Red Hot: The 2021 Machine Learning, AI and Data (MAD) Landscape” by Matt
•
Turck
• Ternary Data’s “What’s Next for Analytical Databases? w/ Jordan Tigani (Mother‐
•
Duck)” video
• “The Unfulfilled Promise of Serverless” by Corey Quinn
•
• “What Is the Modern Data Stack?” by Charles Wang
•
152
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

