# Batch Transformations

Paginas: 335-347

Batch Transformations
Batch transformations run on discrete chunks of data, in contrast to streaming trans‐
formations, where data is processed continuously as it arrives. Batch transformations
can run on a fixed schedule (e.g., daily, hourly, or every 15 minutes) to support
ongoing reporting, analytics, and ML models. In this section, you’ll learn various
batch transformation patterns and technologies.
Distributed joins
The basic idea behind distributed joins is that we need to break a logical join (the
join defined by the query logic) into much smaller node joins that run on individual
servers in the cluster. The basic distributed join patterns apply whether one is in
MapReduce (discussed in “MapReduce” on page 322), BigQuery, Snowflake, or Spark,
though the details of intermediate storage between processing steps vary (on disk or
in memory). In the best-case scenario, the data on one side of the join is small enough
to fit on a single node (broadcast join). Often, a more resource-intensive shuffle hash
join is required.
Broadcast join. A broadcast join is generally asymmetric, with one large table dis‐
tributed across nodes and one small table that can easily fit on a single node (Fig‐
ure 8-17). The query engine “broadcasts” the small table (table A) out to all nodes,
where it gets joined to the parts of the large table (table B). Broadcast joins are far less
compute intensive than shuffle hash joins.
Figure 8-17. In a broadcast join, the query engine sends table A out to all nodes in the
cluster to be joined with the various parts of table B
310
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

In practice, table A is often a down-filtered larger table that the query engine collects
and broadcasts. One of the top priorities in query optimizers is join reordering. With
the early application of filters, and movement of small tables to the left (for left joins),
it is often possible to dramatically reduce the amount of data that is processed in
each join. Prefiltering data to create broadcast joins where possible can dramatically
improve performance and reduce resource consumption.
Shuffle hash join. If neither table is small enough to fit on a single node, the query
engine will use a shuffle hash join. In Figure 8-18, the same nodes are represented
above and below the dotted line. The area above the dotted line represents the initial
partitioning of tables A and B across the nodes. In general, this partitioning will have
no relation to the join key. A hashing scheme is used to repartition data by join key.
Figure 8-18. Shuffle hash join
In this example, the hashing scheme will partition the join key into three parts, with
each part assigned to a node. The data is then reshuffled to the appropriate node, and
the new partitions for tables A and B on each node are joined. Shuffle hash joins are
generally more resource intensive than broadcast joins.
ETL, ELT, and data pipelines
As we discussed in Chapter 3, a widespread transformation pattern dating to the early
days of relational databases is a batch ETL. Traditional ETL relies on an external
transformation system to pull, transform, and clean data while preparing it for a
target schema, such as a data mart or a Kimball star schema. The transformed data
would then be loaded into a target system, such as a data warehouse, where business
analytics could be performed.
Transformations
|
311

14 Alex Woodie, “Lakehouses Prevent Data Swamps, Bill Inmon Says,” Datanami, June 1, 2021,
https://oreil.ly/XMwWc.
The ETL pattern itself was driven by the limitations of both source and target
systems. The extract phase tended to be a major bottleneck, with the constraints
of the source RDBMS limiting the rate at which data could be pulled. And, the
transformation was handled in a dedicated system because the target system was
extremely resource-constrained in both storage and CPU capacity.
A now-popular evolution of ETL is ELT. As data warehouse systems have grown in
performance and storage capacity, it has become common to simply extract raw data
from a source system, import it into a data warehouse with minimal transformation,
and then clean and transform it directly in the warehouse system. (See our discussion
of data warehouses in Chapter 3 for a more detailed discussion of the difference
between ETL and ELT.)
A second, slightly different notion of ELT was popularized with the emergence
of data lakes. In this version, the data is not transformed at the time it’s loaded.
Indeed, massive quantities of data may be loaded with no preparation and no plan
whatsoever. The assumption is that the transformation step will happen at some
undetermined future time. Ingesting data without a plan is a great recipe for a data
swamp. As Inmon says:14
I’ve always been a fan of ETL because of the fact that ETL forces you to transform data
before you put it into a form where you can work with it. But some organizations want
to simply take the data, put it into a database, then do the transformation.... I’ve seen
too many cases where the organization says, oh we’ll just put the data in and transform
it later. And guess what? Six months later, that data [has] never been touched.
We have also seen that the line between ETL and ELT can become somewhat blurry
in a data lakehouse environment. With object storage as a base layer, it’s no longer
clear what’s in the database and out of the database. The ambiguity is further exa‐
cerbated with the emergence of data federation, virtualization, and live tables. (We
discuss these topics later in this section.)
Increasingly, we feel that the terms ETL and ELT should be applied only at the micro
level (within individual transformation pipelines) rather than at the macro level (to
describe a transformation pattern for a whole organization). Organizations no longer
need to standardize on ETL or ELT but can instead focus on applying the proper
technique on a case-by-case basis as they build data pipelines.
SQL and code-based transformation tools
At this juncture, the distinction between SQL-based and non-SQL-based transforma‐
tion systems feels somewhat synthetic. Since the introduction of Hive on the Hadoop
312
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

platform, SQL has become a first-class citizen in the big data ecosystem. For example,
Spark SQL was an early feature of Apache Spark. Streaming-first frameworks such as
Kafka, Flink, and Beam also support SQL, with varying features and functionality.
It is more appropriate to think about SQL-only tools versus those that support more
powerful, general-purpose programming paradigms. SQL-only transformation tools
span a wide variety of proprietary and open source options.
SQL is declarative...but it can still build complex data workflows. We often hear SQL dis‐
missed because it is “not procedural.” This is technically correct. SQL is a declarative
language: instead of coding a data processing procedure, SQL writers stipulate the
characteristics of their final data in set-theoretic language; the SQL compiler and
optimizer determine the steps required to put data in this state.
People sometimes imply that because SQL is not procedural, it cannot build out
complex pipelines. This is false. SQL can effectively be used to build complex DAGs
using common table expressions, SQL scripts, or an orchestration tool.
To be clear, SQL has limits, but we often see engineers doing things in Python and
Spark that could be more easily and efficiently done in SQL. For a better idea of the
trade-offs we’re talking about, let’s look at a couple of examples of Spark and SQL.
Example: When to avoid SQL for batch transformations in Spark. When you’re determining
whether to use native Spark or PySpark code instead of Spark SQL or another SQL
engine, ask yourself the following questions:
1. How difficult is it to code the transformation in SQL?
1.
2. How readable and maintainable will the resulting SQL code be?
2.
3. Should some of the transformation code be pushed into a custom library for
3.
future reuse across the organization?
Regarding question 1, many transformations coded in Spark could be realized in
fairly simple SQL statements. On the other hand, if the transformation is not realiz‐
able in SQL, or if it would be extremely awkward to implement, native Spark is a
better option. For example, we might be able to implement word stemming in SQL
by placing word suffixes in a table, joining with that table, using a parsing function
to find suffixes in words, and then reducing the word to its stem by using a substring
function. However, this sounds like an extremely complex process with numerous
edge cases to consider. A more powerful procedural programming language is a
better fit here.
Question 2 is closely related. The word-stemming query will be neither readable nor
maintainable.
Transformations
|
313

15 We remind you to use UDFs responsibly. SQL UDFs often perform reasonably well. We’ve seen JavaScript
UDFs increase query time from a few minutes to several hours.
Regarding question 3, one of the major limitations of SQL is that it doesn’t include a
natural notion of libraries or reusable code. One exception is that some SQL engines
allow you to maintain user-defined functions (UDFs) as objects inside a database.15
However, these aren’t committed to a Git repository without an external CI/CD
system to manage deployment. Furthermore, SQL doesn’t have a good notion of
reusability for more complex query components. Of course, reusable libraries are
easy to create in Spark and PySpark.
We will add that it is possible to recycle SQL in two ways. First, we can easily reuse
the results of a SQL query by committing to a table or creating a view. This process
is often best handled in an orchestration tool such as Airflow so that downstream
queries can start once the source query has finished. Second, Data Build Tool (dbt)
facilitates the reuse of SQL statements and offers a templating language that makes
customization easier.
Example: Optimizing Spark and other processing frameworks. Spark acolytes often com‐
plain that SQL doesn’t give them control over data processing. The SQL engine takes
your statements, optimizes them, and compiles them into its processing steps. (In
practice, optimization may happen before or after compilation, or both.)
This is a fair complaint, but a corollary exists. With Spark and other code-heavy
processing frameworks, the code writer becomes responsible for much of the opti‐
mization that is handled automatically in a SQL-based engine. The Spark API is
powerful and complex, meaning it is not so easy to identify candidates for reordering,
combination, or decomposition. When embracing Spark, data engineering teams
need to actively engage with the problems of Spark optimization, especially for
expensive, long-running jobs. This means building optimization expertise on the
team and teaching individual engineers how to optimize.
A few top-level things to keep in mind when coding in native Spark:
1. Filter early and often.
1.
2. Rely heavily on the core Spark API, and learn to understand the Spark native way
2.
of doing things. Try to rely on well-maintained public libraries if the native Spark
API doesn’t support your use case. Good Spark code is substantially declarative.
3. Be careful with UDFs.
3.
4. Consider intermixing SQL.
4.
Recommendation 1 applies to SQL optimization as well, with the difference being
that Spark may not be able to reorder something that SQL would handle for you
314
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

automatically. Spark is a big data processing framework, but the less data you have to
process, the less resource-heavy and more performant your code will be.
If you find yourself writing extremely complex custom code, pause and determine
whether there’s a more native way of doing whatever you’re trying to accomplish.
Learn to understand idiomatic Spark by reading public examples and working
through tutorials. Is there something in the Spark API that can accomplish what
you’re trying to do? Is there a well-maintained and optimized public library that can
help?
The third recommendation is crucial for PySpark. In general, PySpark is an API
wrapper for Scala Spark. Your code pushes work into native Scala code running
in the JVM by calling the API. Running Python UDFs forces data to be passed to
Python, where processing is less efficient. If you find yourself using Python UDFs,
look for a more Spark-native way to accomplish what you’re doing. Go back to the
recommendation: is there a way to accomplish your task by using the core API or a
well-maintained library? If you must use UDFs, consider rewriting them in Scala or
Java to improve performance.
As for recommendation 4, using SQL allows us to take advantage of the Spark Cata‐
lyst optimizer, which may be able to squeeze out more performance than we can with
native Spark code. SQL is often easier to write and maintain for simple operations.
Combining native Spark and SQL lets us realize the best of both worlds—powerful,
general-purpose functionality combined with simplicity where applicable.
Much of the optimization advice in this section is fairly generic and would apply just
as well to Apache Beam, for example. The main point is that programmable data
processing APIs require a bit more optimization finesse than SQL, which is perhaps
less powerful and easier to use.
Update patterns
Since transformations persist data, we will often update persisted data in place.
Updating data is a major pain point for data engineering teams, especially as they
transition between data engineering technologies. We’re discussing DML in SQL,
which we introduced earlier in the chapter.
We’ve mentioned several times throughout the book that the original data lake con‐
cept didn’t really account for updating data. This now seems nonsensical for several
reasons. Updating data has long been a key part of handling data transformation
results, even though the big data community dismissed it. It is silly to rerun signif‐
icant amounts of work because we have no update capabilities. Thus, the data lake‐
house concept now builds in updates. Also, GDPR and other data deletion standards
now require organizations to delete data in a targeted fashion, even in raw datasets.
Let’s consider several basic update patterns.
Transformations
|
315

Truncate and reload. Truncate is an update pattern that doesn’t update anything. It
simply wipes the old data. In a truncate-and-reload update pattern, a table is cleared
of data, and transformations are rerun and loaded into this table, effectively generat‐
ing a new table version.
Insert only. Insert only inserts new records without changing or deleting old records.
Insert-only patterns can be used to maintain a current view of data—for example, if
new versions of records are inserted without deleting old records. A query or view
can present the current data state by finding the newest record by primary key. Note
that columnar databases don’t typically enforce primary keys. The primary key would
be a construct used by engineers to maintain a notion of the current state of the table.
The downside to this approach is that it can be extremely computationally expensive
to find the latest record at query time. Alternatively, we can use a materialized view
(covered later in the chapter), an insert-only table that maintains all records, and a
truncate-and-reload target table that holds the current state for serving data.
When inserting data into a column-oriented OLAP database,
the common problem is that engineers transitioning from row-
oriented systems attempt to use single-row inserts. This antipattern
puts a massive load on the system. It also causes data to be written
in many separate files; this is extremely inefficient for subsequent
reads, and the data must be reclustered later. Instead, we recom‐
mend loading data in a periodic micro-batch or batch fashion.
We’ll mention an exception to the advice not to insert frequently: the enhanced
Lambda architecture used by BigQuery and Apache Druid, which hybridizes a
streaming buffer with columnar storage. Deletes and in-place updates can still be
expensive, as we’ll discuss next.
Delete. Deletion is critical when a source system deletes data and satisfies recent
regulatory changes. In columnar systems and data lakes, deletes are more expensive
than inserts.
When deleting data, consider whether you need to do a hard or soft delete. A hard
delete permanently removes a record from a database, while a soft delete marks the
record as “deleted.” Hard deletes are useful when you need to remove data for perfor‐
mance reasons (say, a table is too big), or if there’s a legal or compliance reason to do
so. Soft deletes might be used when you don’t want to delete a record permanently but
also want to filter it out of query results.
A third approach to deletes is closely related to soft deletes: insert deletion inserts a
new record with a deleted flag without modifying the previous version of the record.
This allows us to follow an insert-only pattern but still account for deletions. Just note
316
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

that our query to get the latest table state gets a little more complicated. We must now
deduplicate, find the latest version of each record by key, and not show any record
whose latest version shows deleted.
Upsert/merge. Of these update patterns, the upsert and merge patterns are the
ones that consistently cause the most trouble for data engineering teams, especially
for people transitioning from row-based data warehouses to column-based cloud
systems.
Upserting takes a set of source records and looks for matches against a target table by
using a primary key or another logical condition. (Again, it’s the responsibility of the
data engineering team to manage this primary key by running appropriate queries.
Most columnar systems will not enforce uniqueness.) When a key match occurs, the
target record gets updated (replaced by the new record). When no match exists, the
database inserts the new record. The merge pattern adds to this the ability to delete
records.
So, what’s the problem? The upsert/merge pattern was originally designed for row-
based databases. In row-based databases, updates are a natural process: the database
looks up the record in question and changes it in place.
On the other hand, file-based systems don’t actually support in-place file updates. All
of these systems utilize copy on write (COW). If one record in a file is changed or
deleted, the whole file must be rewritten with the new changes.
This is part of the reason that early adopters of big data and data lakes rejected
updates: managing files and updates seemed too complicated. So they simply used
an insert-only pattern and assumed that data consumers would determine the cur‐
rent state of the data at query time or in downstream transformations. In reality,
columnar databases such as Vertica have long supported in-place updates by hiding
the complexity of COW from users. They scan files, change the relevant records,
write new files, and change file pointers for the table. The major columnar cloud
data warehouses support updates and merges, although engineers should investigate
update support if they consider adopting an exotic technology.
There are a few key things to understand here. Even though distributed columnar
data systems support native update commands, merges come at a cost: the perfor‐
mance impact of updating or deleting a single record can be quite high. On the
other hand, merges can be extremely performant for large update sets and may even
outperform transactional databases.
In addition, it is important to understand that COW seldom entails rewriting the
whole table. Depending on the database system in question, COW can operate at
various resolutions (partition, cluster, block). To realize performant updates, focus on
Transformations
|
317

developing an appropriate partitioning and clustering strategy based on your needs
and the innards of the database in question.
As with inserts, be careful with your update or merge frequency. We’ve seen many
engineering teams transition between database systems and try to run near real-time
merges from CDC just as they did on their old system. It simply doesn’t work. No
matter how good your CDC system is, this approach will bring most columnar data
warehouses to their knees. We’ve seen systems fall weeks behind on updates, where an
approach that simply merged every hour would make much more sense.
We can use various approaches to bring columnar databases closer to real time.
For example, BigQuery allows us to stream insert new records into a table, and
then supports specialized materialized views that present an efficient, near real-time
deduplicated table view. Druid uses two-tier storage and SSDs to support ultrafast
real-time queries.
Schema updates
Data has entropy and may change without your control or consent. External data
sources may change their schema, or application development teams may add new
fields to the schema. One advantage of columnar systems over row-based systems is
that while updating the data is more difficult, updating the schema is easier. Columns
can typically be added, deleted, and renamed.
In spite of these technological improvements, practical organizational schema man‐
agement is more challenging. Will some schema updates be automated? (This is the
approach that Fivetran uses when replicating from sources.) As convenient as this
sounds, there’s a risk that downstream transformations will break.
Is there a straightforward schema update request process? Suppose a data science
team wants to add a column from a source that wasn’t previously ingested. What will
the review process look like? Will downstream processes break? (Are there queries
that run SELECT * rather than using explicit column selection? This is generally bad
practice in columnar databases.) How long will it take to implement the change? Is it
possible to create a table fork—i.e., a new table version specific to this project?
A new interesting option has emerged for semistructured data. Borrowing an idea
from document stores, many cloud data warehouses now support data types that
encode arbitrary JSON data. One approach stores raw JSON in a field while storing
frequently accessed data in adjacent flattened fields. This takes up additional storage
space but allows for the convenience of flattened data, with the flexibility of semi‐
structured data for advanced users. Frequently accessed data in the JSON field can be
added directly into the schema over time.
This approach works extremely well when data engineers must ingest data from
an application document store with a frequently changing schema. Semistructured
318
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

data available as a first-class citizen in data warehouses is extremely flexible and
opens new opportunities for data analysts and data scientists since data is no longer
constrained to rows and columns.
Data wrangling
Data wrangling takes messy, malformed data and turns it into useful, clean data. This
is generally a batch transformation process.
Data wrangling has long been a major source of pain and job security for data engi‐
neers. For example, suppose that developers receive EDI data (see Chapter 7) from a
partner business regarding transactions and invoices, potentially a mix of structured
data and text. The typical process of wrangling this data involves first trying to ingest
it. Often, the data is so malformed that a good deal of text preprocessing is involved.
Developers may choose to ingest the data as a single text field table—an entire row
ingested as a single field. Developers then begin writing queries to parse and break
apart the data. Over time, they discover data anomalies and edge cases. Eventually,
they will get the data into rough shape. Only then can the process of downstream
transformation begin.
Data wrangling tools aim to simplify significant parts of this process. These tools
often put off data engineers because they claim to be no code, which sounds unso‐
phisticated. We prefer to think of data wrangling tools as integrated development
environments (IDEs) for malformed data. In practice, data engineers spend way too
much time parsing nasty data; automation tools allow data engineers to spend time
on more interesting tasks. Wrangling tools may also allow engineers to hand some
parsing and ingestion work off to analysts.
Graphical data-wrangling tools typically present a sample of data in a visual interface,
with inferred types, statistics including distributions, anomalous data, outliers, and
nulls. Users can then add processing steps to fix data issues. A step might provide
instructions for dealing with mistyped data, splitting a text field into multiple parts,
or joining with a lookup table.
Users can run the steps on a full dataset when the full job is ready. The job typically
gets pushed to a scalable data processing system such as Spark for large datasets. After
the job runs, it will return errors and unhandled exceptions. The user can further
refine the recipe to deal with these outliers.
We highly recommend that both aspiring and seasoned engineers experiment with
wrangling tools; major cloud providers sell their version of data-wrangling tools,
and many third-party options are available. Data engineers may find that these tools
significantly streamline certain parts of their jobs. Organizationally, data engineering
teams may want to consider training specialists in data wrangling if they frequently
ingest from new, messy data sources.
Transformations
|
319

Example: Data transformation in Spark
Let’s look at a practical, concrete example of data transformation. Suppose we build
a pipeline that ingests data from three API sources in JSON format. This initial
ingestion step is handled in Airflow. Each data source gets its prefix (filepath) in an S3
bucket.
Airflow then triggers a Spark job by calling an API. This Spark job ingests each of
the three sources into a dataframe, converting the data into a relational format, with
nesting in certain columns. The Spark job combines the three sources into a single
table and then filters the results with a SQL statement. The results are finally written
out to a Parquet-formatted Delta Lake table stored in S3.
In practice, Spark creates a DAG of steps based on the code that we write for
ingesting, joining, and writing out the data. The basic ingestion of data happens in
cluster memory, although one of the data sources is large enough that it must spill to
disk during the ingestion process. (This data gets written to cluster storage; it will be
reloaded into memory for subsequent processing steps.)
The join requires a shuffle operation. A key is used to redistribute data across the
cluster; once again, a spill to disk occurs as the data is written to each node. The SQL
transformation filters through the rows in memory and discards the unused rows.
Finally, Spark converts the data into Parquet format, compresses it, and writes it back
to S3. Airflow periodically calls back to Spark to see if the job is completed. Once it
confirms that the job has finished, it marks the full Airflow DAG as completed. (Note
that we have two DAG constructs here, an Airflow DAG and a DAG specific to the
Spark job.)
Business logic and derived data
One of the most common use cases for transformation is to render business logic.
We’ve placed this discussion under batch transformations because this is where this
type of transformation happens most frequently, but note that it could also happen in
a streaming pipeline.
Suppose that a company uses multiple specialized internal profit calculations. One
version might look at profits before marketing costs, and another might look at a
profit after subtracting marketing costs. Even though this appears to be a straightfor‐
ward accounting exercise, each of these metrics is highly complex to render.
Profit before marketing costs might need to account for fraudulent orders; determin‐
ing a reasonable profit estimate for the previous business day entails estimating what
percentage of revenue and profit will ultimately be lost to orders canceled in the
coming days as the fraud team investigates suspicious orders. Is there a special flag in
the database that indicates an order with a high probability of fraud, or one that has
320
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

16 Michael Blaha, “Be Careful with Derived Data,” Dataversity, December 5, 2016, https://oreil.ly/garoL.
17 Benn Stancil, “The Missing Piece of the Modern Data Stack,” benn.substack, April 22, 2021,
https://oreil.ly/GYf3Z.
been automatically canceled? Does the business assume that a certain percentage of
orders will be canceled because of fraud even before the fraud-risk evaluation process
has been completed for specific orders?
For profits after marketing costs, we must account for all the complexities of the
previous metric, plus the marketing costs attributed to the specific order. Does the
company have a naive attribution model—e.g., marketing costs attributed to items
weighted by price? Marketing costs might also be attributed per department, or item
category, or—in the most sophisticated organizations—per individual item based on
user ad clicks.
The business logic transformation that generates this nuanced version of profit must
integrate all the subtleties of attribution—i.e., a model that links orders to specific
ads and advertising costs. Is attribution data stored in the guts of ETL scripts, or is it
pulled from a table that is automatically generated from ad platform data?
This type of reporting data is a quintessential example of derived data—data compu‐
ted from other data stored in a data system. Derived data critics will point out that
it is challenging for the ETL to maintain consistency in the derived metrics.16 For
example, if the company updates its attribution model, this change may need to be
merged into many ETL scripts for reporting. (ETL scripts are notorious for breaking
the DRY principle.) Updating these ETL scripts is a manual and labor-intensive pro‐
cess, involving domain expertise in processing logic and previous changes. Updated
scripts must also be validated for consistency and accuracy.
From our perspective, these are legitimate criticisms but not necessarily very con‐
structive because the alternative to derived data in this instance is equally distasteful.
Analysts will need to run their reporting queries if profit data is not stored in the
data warehouse, including profit logic. Updating complex ETL scripts to represent
changes to business logic accurately is an overwhelming, labor-intensive task, but
getting analysts to update their reporting queries consistently is well-nigh impossible.
One interesting alternative is to push business logic into a metrics layer,17 but still
leverage the data warehouse or other tool to do the computational heavy lifting.
A metrics layer encodes business logic and allows analysts and dashboard users to
build complex analytics from a library of defined metrics. The metrics layer generates
queries from the metrics and sends these to the database. We discuss semantic and
metrics layers in more detail in Chapter 9.
Transformations
|
321

MapReduce
No discussion of batch transformation can be complete without touching on Map‐
Reduce. This isn’t because MapReduce is widely used by data engineers these days.
MapReduce was the defining batch data transformation pattern of the big data era,
it still influences many distributed systems data engineers use today, and it’s useful
for data engineers to understand at a basic level. MapReduce was introduced by
Google in a follow-up to its paper on GFS. It was initially the de facto processing
pattern of Hadoop, the open source analogue technology of GFS that we introduced
in Chapter 6.
A simple MapReduce job consists of a collection of map tasks that read individual
data blocks scattered across the nodes, followed by a shuffle that redistributes result
data across the cluster and a reduce step that aggregates data on each node. For
example, suppose that we wanted to run the following SQL query:
SELECT COUNT(*), user_id
FROM user_events
GROUP BY user_id;
The table data is spread across nodes in data blocks; the MapReduce job generates
one map task per block. Each map task essentially runs the query on a single block
—i.e., it generates a count for each user ID that appears in the block. While a
block might contain hundreds of megabytes, the full table could be petabytes in size.
However, the map portion of the job is a nearly perfect example of embarrassing
parallelism; the data scan rate across the full cluster essentially scales linearly with the
number of nodes.
We then need to aggregate (reduce) to gather results from the full cluster. We’re
not gathering results to a single node; rather, we redistribute results by key so that
each key ends up on one and only one node. This is the shuffle step, which is often
executed using a hashing algorithm on keys. Once the map results have been shuffled,
we sum the results for each key. The key/count pairs can be written to the local disk
on the node where they are computed. We collect the results stored across nodes to
view the full query results.
Real-world MapReduce jobs can be far more complex than what we describe here. A
complex query that filters with a WHERE clause joins three tables and applies a window
function that would consist of many map and reduce stages.
After MapReduce
Google’s original MapReduce model is extremely powerful but is now viewed as
excessively rigid. It utilizes numerous short-lived ephemeral tasks that read from and
write to disk. In particular, no intermediate state is preserved in memory; all data is
transferred between tasks by storing it to disk or pushing it over the network. This
322
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

