# Data Maturity and the Data Engineer

Paginas: 38-41

Data Engineering Skills and Activities
The skill set of a data engineer encompasses the “undercurrents” of data engineering:
security, data management, DataOps, data architecture, and software engineering.
This skill set requires an understanding of how to evaluate data tools and how they
fit together across the data engineering lifecycle. It’s also critical to know how data is
produced in source systems and how analysts and data scientists will consume and
create value after processing and curating data. Finally, a data engineer juggles a lot
of complex moving parts and must constantly optimize along the axes of cost, agility,
scalability, simplicity, reuse, and interoperability (Figure 1-7). We cover these topics
in more detail in upcoming chapters.
Figure 1-7. The balancing act of data engineering
As we discussed, in the recent past, a data engineer was expected to know and under‐
stand how to use a small handful of powerful and monolithic technologies (Hadoop,
Spark, Teradata, Hive, and many others) to create a data solution. Utilizing these
technologies often requires a sophisticated understanding of software engineering,
networking, distributed computing, storage, or other low-level details. Their work
would be devoted to cluster administration and maintenance, managing overhead,
and writing pipeline and transformation jobs, among other tasks.
Nowadays, the data-tooling landscape is dramatically less complicated to manage and
deploy. Modern data tools considerably abstract and simplify workflows. As a result,
data engineers are now focused on balancing the simplest and most cost-effective,
best-of-breed services that deliver value to the business. The data engineer is also
expected to create agile data architectures that evolve as new trends emerge.
What are some things a data engineer does not do? A data engineer typically does not
directly build ML models, create reports or dashboards, perform data analysis, build
key performance indicators (KPIs), or develop software applications. A data engineer
should have a good functioning understanding of these areas to serve stakeholders
best.
Data Maturity and the Data Engineer
The level of data engineering complexity within a company depends a great deal on
the company’s data maturity. This significantly impacts a data engineer’s day-to-day
job responsibilities and career progression. What is data maturity, exactly?
Data maturity is the progression toward higher data utilization, capabilities, and
integration across the organization, but data maturity does not simply depend on the
Data Engineering Skills and Activities
|
13

age or revenue of a company. An early-stage startup can have greater data maturity
than a 100-year-old company with annual revenues in the billions. What matters is
the way data is leveraged as a competitive advantage.
Data maturity models have many versions, such as Data Management Maturity
(DMM) and others, and it’s hard to pick one that is both simple and useful for
data engineering. So, we’ll create our own simplified data maturity model. Our data
maturity model (Figure 1-8) has three stages: starting with data, scaling with data,
and leading with data. Let’s look at each of these stages and at what a data engineer
typically does at each stage.
Figure 1-8. Our simplified data maturity model for a company
Stage 1: Starting with data
A company getting started with data is, by definition, in the very early stages of
its data maturity. The company may have fuzzy, loosely defined goals or no goals.
Data architecture and infrastructure are in the very early stages of planning and
development. Adoption and utilization are likely low or nonexistent. The data team
is small, often with a headcount in the single digits. At this stage, a data engineer is
usually a generalist and will typically play several other roles, such as data scientist or
software engineer. A data engineer’s goal is to move fast, get traction, and add value.
The practicalities of getting value from data are typically poorly understood, but the
desire exists. Reports or analyses lack formal structure, and most requests for data
are ad hoc. While it’s tempting to jump headfirst into ML at this stage, we don’t
recommend it. We’ve seen countless data teams get stuck and fall short when they try
to jump to ML without building a solid data foundation.
That’s not to say you can’t get wins from ML at this stage—it is rare but possible.
Without a solid data foundation, you likely won’t have the data to train reliable
ML models nor the means to deploy these models to production in a scalable and
repeatable way. We half-jokingly call ourselves “recovering data scientists”, mainly
from personal experience with being involved in premature data science projects
without adequate data maturity or data engineering support.
A data engineer should focus on the following in organizations getting started with
data:
14
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

• Get buy-in from key stakeholders, including executive management. Ideally, the
•
data engineer should have a sponsor for critical initiatives to design and build a
data architecture to support the company’s goals.
• Define the right data architecture (usually solo, since a data architect likely isn’t
•
available). This means determining business goals and the competitive advantage
you’re aiming to achieve with your data initiative. Work toward a data architec‐
ture that supports these goals. See Chapter 3 for our advice on “good” data
architecture.
• Identify and audit data that will support key initiatives and operate within the
•
data architecture you designed.
• Build a solid data foundation for future data analysts and data scientists to
•
generate reports and models that provide competitive value. In the meantime,
you may also have to generate these reports and models until this team is hired.
This is a delicate stage with lots of pitfalls. Here are some tips for this stage:
• Organizational willpower may wane if a lot of visible successes don’t occur with
•
data. Getting quick wins will establish the importance of data within the organi‐
zation. Just keep in mind that quick wins will likely create technical debt. Have a
plan to reduce this debt, as it will otherwise add friction for future delivery.
• Get out and talk to people, and avoid working in silos. We often see the data team
•
working in a bubble, not communicating with people outside their departments
and getting perspectives and feedback from business stakeholders. The danger is
you’ll spend a lot of time working on things of little use to people.
• Avoid undifferentiated heavy lifting. Don’t box yourself in with unnecessary
•
technical complexity. Use off-the-shelf, turnkey solutions wherever possible.
• Build custom solutions and code only where this creates a competitive advantage.
•
Stage 2: Scaling with data
At this point, a company has moved away from ad hoc data requests and has formal
data practices. Now the challenge is creating scalable data architectures and planning
for a future where the company is genuinely data-driven. Data engineering roles
move from generalists to specialists, with people focusing on particular aspects of the
data engineering lifecycle.
In organizations that are in stage 2 of data maturity, a data engineer’s goals are to do
the following:
• Establish formal data practices
•
• Create scalable and robust data architectures
•
Data Engineering Skills and Activities
|
15

• Adopt DevOps and DataOps practices
•
• Build systems that support ML
•
• Continue to avoid undifferentiated heavy lifting and customize only when a
•
competitive advantage results
We return to each of these goals later in the book.
Issues to watch out for include the following:
• As we grow more sophisticated with data, there’s a temptation to adopt bleeding-
•
edge technologies based on social proof from Silicon Valley companies. This is
rarely a good use of your time and energy. Any technology decisions should be
driven by the value they’ll deliver to your customers.
• The main bottleneck for scaling is not cluster nodes, storage, or technology but
•
the data engineering team. Focus on solutions that are simple to deploy and
manage to expand your team’s throughput.
• You’ll be tempted to frame yourself as a technologist, a data genius who can
•
deliver magical products. Shift your focus instead to pragmatic leadership and
begin transitioning to the next maturity stage; communicate with other teams
about the practical utility of data. Teach the organization how to consume and
leverage data.
Stage 3: Leading with data
At this stage, the company is data-driven. The automated pipelines and systems cre‐
ated by data engineers allow people within the company to do self-service analytics
and ML. Introducing new data sources is seamless, and tangible value is derived.
Data engineers implement proper controls and practices to ensure that data is always
available to the people and systems. Data engineering roles continue to specialize
more deeply than in stage 2.
In organizations in stage 3 of data maturity, a data engineer will continue building on
prior stages, plus they will do the following:
• Create automation for the seamless introduction and usage of new data
•
• Focus on building custom tools and systems that leverage data as a competitive
•
advantage
• Focus on the “enterprisey” aspects of data, such as data management (including
•
data governance and quality) and DataOps
• Deploy tools that expose and disseminate data throughout the organization,
•
including data catalogs, data lineage tools, and metadata management systems
16
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

