# Active Security

Paginas: 396-396

at face value when asked for credentials, sensitive data, or confidential information,
including from your coworkers.
You are also the first line of defense in respecting privacy and ethics. Are you
uncomfortable with sensitive data you’ve been tasked to collect? Do you have ethical
questions about the way data is being handled in a project? Raise your concerns
with colleagues and leadership. Ensure that your work is both legally compliant and
ethical.
Processes
When people follow regular security processes, security becomes part of the job.
Make security a habit, regularly practice real security, exercise the principle of least
privilege, and understand the shared responsibility model in the cloud.
Security Theater Versus Security Habit
With our corporate clients, we see a pervasive focus on compliance (with internal
rules, laws, recommendations from standards bodies), but not enough attention to
potentially bad scenarios. Unfortunately, this creates an illusion of security but often
leaves gaping holes that would be evident with a few minutes of reflection.
Security needs to be simple and effective enough to become habitual throughout an
organization. We’re amazed at the number of companies with security policies in the
hundreds of pages that nobody reads, the annual security policy review that people
immediately forget, all in checking a box for a security audit. This is security theater,
where security is done in the letter of compliance (SOC-2, ISO 27001, and related)
without real commitment.
Instead, pursue the spirit of genuine and habitual security; bake a security mindset
into your culture. Security doesn’t need to be complicated. For example, at our
company, we run security training and policy review at least once a month to ingrain
this into our team’s DNA and update each other on security practices we can improve.
Security must not be an afterthought for your data team. Everyone is responsible and
has a role to play. It must be the priority for you and everyone else you work with.
Active Security
Returning to the idea of negative thinking, active security entails thinking about and
researching security threats in a dynamic and changing world. Rather than simply
deploying scheduled simulated phishing attacks, you can take an active security
posture by researching successful phishing attacks and thinking through your organi‐
zational security vulnerabilities. Rather than simply adopting a standard compliance
checklist, you can think about internal vulnerabilities specific to your organization
and incentives employees might have to leak or misuse private information.
Processes
|
371

