# DataOps

Paginas: 254-254

Metadata management also significantly enhances data governance. Beyond simply
enabling passive data cataloging and lineage, consider implementing analytics over
these systems to get a clear, active picture of what’s happening with your data.
Data versioning in object storage
Major cloud object storage systems enable data versioning. Data versioning can help
with error recovery when processes fail, and data becomes corrupted. Versioning
is also beneficial for tracking the history of datasets used to build models. Just as
code version control allows developers to track down commits that cause bugs,
data version control can aid ML engineers in tracking changes that lead to model
performance degradation.
Privacy
GDPR and other privacy regulations have significantly impacted storage system
design. Any data with privacy implications has a lifecycle that data engineers must
manage. Data engineers must be prepared to respond to data deletion requests and
selectively remove data as required. In addition, engineers can accommodate privacy
and security through anonymization and masking.
DataOps
DataOps is not orthogonal to data management, and a significant area of overlap
exists. DataOps concerns itself with traditional operational monitoring of storage
systems and monitoring the data itself, inseparable from metadata and quality.
Systems monitoring
Data engineers must monitor storage in a variety of ways. This includes monitoring
infrastructure storage components, where they exist, but also monitoring object
storage and other “serverless” systems. Data engineers should take the lead on FinOps
(cost management), security monitoring, and access monitoring.
Observing and monitoring data
While metadata systems as we’ve described are critical, good engineering must con‐
sider the entropic nature of data by actively seeking to understand its characteristics
and watching for major changes. Engineers can monitor data statistics, apply anom‐
aly detection methods or simple rules, and actively test and validate for logical
inconsistencies.
Undercurrents
|
229

