# Our Advice

Paginas: 163-163

Documentation and support
Problems and questions will inevitably arise. Is it clear how to solve your prob‐
lem, either through documentation or support?
Pricing
Is the pricing understandable? Map out low-, medium-, and high-probability
usage scenarios, with respective costs. Are you able to negotiate a contract, along
with a discount? Is it worth it? How much flexibility do you lose if you sign a
contract, both in negotiation and the ability to try new options? Are you able to
obtain contractual commitments on future pricing?
Longevity
Will the company survive long enough for you to get value from its product?
If the company has raised money, search around for its funding situation. Look
at user reviews. Ask friends and post questions on social networks about users’
experiences with the product. Make sure you know what you’re getting into.
Cloud platform proprietary service offerings
Cloud vendors develop and sell their proprietary services for storage, databases, and
more. Many of these solutions are internal tools used by respective sibling companies.
For example, Amazon created the database DynamoDB to overcome the limitations
of traditional relational databases and handle the large amounts of user and order
data as Amazon.com grew into a behemoth. Amazon later offered the DynamoDB
service solely on AWS; it’s now a top-rated product used by companies of all sizes and
maturity levels. Cloud vendors will often bundle their products to work well together.
Each cloud can create stickiness with its user base by creating a strong integrated
ecosystem.
The following are factors to consider with a proprietary cloud offering:
Performance versus price comparisons
Is the cloud offering substantially better than an independent or OSS version?
What’s the TCO of choosing a cloud’s offering?
Purchase considerations
On-demand pricing can be expensive. Can you lower your cost by purchasing
reserved capacity or entering into a long-term commitment agreement?
Our Advice
Build versus buy comes back to knowing your competitive advantage and where it
makes sense to invest resources toward customization. In general, we favor OSS and
COSS by default, which frees you to focus on improving those areas where these
options are insufficient. Focus on a few areas where building something will add
significant value or reduce friction substantially.
138
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

