# The Background and Skills of a Data Engineer

Paginas: 42-42

• Collaborate efficiently with software engineers, ML engineers, analysts, and
•
others
• Create a community and environment where people can collaborate and speak
•
openly, no matter their role or position
Issues to watch out for include the following:
• At this stage, complacency is a significant danger. Once organizations reach
•
stage 3, they must constantly focus on maintenance and improvement or risk
falling back to a lower stage.
• Technology distractions are a more significant danger here than in the other
•
stages. There’s a temptation to pursue expensive hobby projects that don’t deliver
value to the business. Utilize custom-built technology only where it provides a
competitive advantage.
The Background and Skills of a Data Engineer
Data engineering is a fast-growing field, and a lot of questions remain about how
to become a data engineer. Because data engineering is a relatively new discipline,
little formal training is available to enter the field. Universities don’t have a standard
data engineering path. Although a handful of data engineering boot camps and online
tutorials cover random topics, a common curriculum for the subject doesn’t yet exist.
People entering data engineering arrive with varying backgrounds in education,
career, and skill set. Everyone entering the field should expect to invest a significant
amount of time in self-study. Reading this book is a good starting point; one of the
primary goals of this book is to give you a foundation for the knowledge and skills we
think are necessary to succeed as a data engineer.
If you’re pivoting your career into data engineering, we’ve found that the transition is
easiest when moving from an adjacent field, such as software engineering, ETL devel‐
opment, database administration, data science, or data analysis. These disciplines
tend to be “data aware” and provide good context for data roles in an organization.
They also equip folks with the relevant technical skills and context to solve data
engineering problems.
Despite the lack of a formalized path, a requisite body of knowledge exists that we
believe a data engineer should know to be successful. By definition, a data engineer
must understand both data and technology. With respect to data, this entails knowing
about various best practices around data management. On the technology end, a
data engineer must be aware of various options for tools, their interplay, and their
trade-offs. This requires a good understanding of software engineering, DataOps, and
data architecture.
Data Engineering Skills and Activities
|
17

