# Compression

Paginas: 221-221

example, involves choosing a base storage system (e.g., Amazon S3) and standards for
serialization that balance interoperability with performance considerations.
What is serialization, exactly? Data stored in system memory by software is generally
not in a format suitable for storage on disk or transmission over a network. Serializa‐
tion is the process of flattening and packing data into a standard format that a reader
will be able to decode. Serialization formats provide a standard of data exchange. We
might encode data in a row-based manner as an XML, JSON, or CSV file and pass
it to another user who can then decode it using a standard library. A serialization
algorithm has logic for handling types, imposes rules on data structure, and allows
exchange between programming languages and CPUs. The serialization algorithm
also has rules for handling exceptions. For instance, Python objects can contain cyclic
references; the serialization algorithm might throw an error or limit nesting depth on
encountering a cycle.
Low-level database storage is also a form of serialization. Row-oriented relational
databases organize data as rows on disk to support speedy lookups and in-place
updates. Columnar databases organize data into column files to optimize for highly
efficient compression and support fast scans of large data volumes. Each serialization
choice comes with a set of trade-offs, and data engineers tune these choices to
optimize performance to requirements.
We provide a more detailed catalog of common data serialization techniques and for‐
mats in Appendix A. We suggest that data engineers become familiar with common
serialization practices and formats, especially the most popular current formats (e.g.,
Apache Parquet), hybrid serialization (e.g., Apache Hudi), and in-memory serializa‐
tion (e.g., Apache Arrow).
Compression
Compression is another critical component of storage engineering. On a basic level,
compression makes data smaller, but compression algorithms interact with other
details of storage systems in complex ways.
Highly efficient compression has three main advantages in storage systems. First,
the data is smaller and thus takes up less space on the disk. Second, compression
increases the practical scan speed per disk. With a 10:1 compression ratio, we go from
scanning 200 MB/s per magnetic disk to an effective rate of 2 GB/s per disk.
The third advantage is in network performance. Given that a network connection
between an Amazon EC2 instance and S3 provides 10 gigabits per second (Gbps) of
bandwidth, a 10:1 compression ratio increases effective network bandwidth to 100
Gbps.
196
|
Chapter 6: Storage

