# Data Warehouse

Paginas: 123-125

22 H. W. Inmon, Building the Data Warehouse (Hoboken: Wiley, 2005).
Now, we’ll look at examples and types of architectures—some established for dec‐
ades (the data warehouse), some brand-new (the data lakehouse), and some that
quickly came and went but still influence current architecture patterns (Lambda
architecture).
Examples and Types of Data Architecture
Because data architecture is an abstract discipline, it helps to reason by example. In
this section, we outline prominent examples and types of data architecture that are
popular today. Though this set of examples is by no means exhaustive, the intention is
to expose you to some of the most common data architecture patterns and to get you
thinking about the requisite flexibility and trade-off analysis needed when designing
a good architecture for your use case.
Data Warehouse
A data warehouse is a central data hub used for reporting and analysis. Data in a
data warehouse is typically highly formatted and structured for analytics use cases. It’s
among the oldest and most well-established data architectures.
In 1989, Bill Inmon originated the notion of the data warehouse, which he described
as “a subject-oriented, integrated, nonvolatile, and time-variant collection of data
in support of management’s decisions.”22 Though technical aspects of the data ware‐
house have evolved significantly, we feel this original definition still holds its weight
today.
In the past, data warehouses were widely used at enterprises with significant budgets
(often in the millions of dollars) to acquire data systems and pay internal teams
to provide ongoing support to maintain the data warehouse. This was expensive
and labor-intensive. Since then, the scalable, pay-as-you-go model has made cloud
data warehouses accessible even to tiny companies. Because a third-party provider
manages the data warehouse infrastructure, companies can do a lot more with fewer
people, even as the complexity of their data grows.
It’s worth noting two types of data warehouse architecture: organizational and tech‐
nical. The organizational data warehouse architecture organizes data associated with
certain business team structures and processes. The technical data warehouse architec‐
ture reflects the technical nature of the data warehouse, such as MPP. A company
can have a data warehouse without an MPP system or run an MPP system that
is not organized as a data warehouse. However, the technical and organizational
architectures have existed in a virtuous cycle and are frequently identified with each
other.
98
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

The organizational data warehouse architecture has two main characteristics:
Separates online analytical processing (OLAP) from production databases (online trans‐
action processing)
This separation is critical as businesses grow. Moving data into a separate physi‐
cal system directs load away from production systems and improves analytics
performance.
Centralizes and organizes data
Traditionally, a data warehouse pulls data from application systems by using
ETL. The extract phase pulls data from source systems. The transformation
phase cleans and standardizes data, organizing and imposing business logic in a
highly modeled form. (Chapter 8 covers transformations and data models.) The
load phase pushes data into the data warehouse target database system. Data is
loaded into multiple data marts that serve the analytical needs for specific lines
or business and departments. Figure 3-10 shows the general workflow. The data
warehouse and ETL go hand in hand with specific business structures, including
DBA and ETL developer teams that implement the direction of business leaders
to ensure that data for reporting and analytics corresponds to business processes.
Figure 3-10. Basic data warehouse with ETL
Regarding the technical data warehouse architecture, the first MPP systems in the
late 1970s became popular in the 1980s. MPPs support essentially the same SQL
semantics used in relational application databases. Still, they are optimized to scan
massive amounts of data in parallel and thus allow high-performance aggregation
and statistical calculations. In recent years, MPP systems have increasingly shifted
from a row-based to a columnar architecture to facilitate even larger data and queries,
especially in cloud data warehouses. MPPs are indispensable for running performant
queries for large enterprises as data and reporting needs grow.
One variation on ETL is ELT. With the ELT data warehouse architecture, data gets
moved more or less directly from production systems into a staging area in the data
warehouse. Staging in this setting indicates that the data is in a raw form. Rather than
using an external system, transformations are handled directly in the data warehouse.
The intention is to take advantage of the massive computational power of cloud data
Examples and Types of Data Architecture
|
99

warehouses and data processing tools. Data is processed in batches, and transformed
output is written into tables and views for analytics. Figure 3-11 shows the general
process. ELT is also popular in a streaming arrangement, as events are streamed from
a CDC process, stored in a staging area, and then subsequently transformed within
the data warehouse.
Figure 3-11. ELT—extract, load, and transform
A second version of ELT was popularized during big data growth in the Hadoop
ecosystem. This is transform-on-read ELT, which we discuss in “Data Lake” on page
101.
The cloud data warehouse
Cloud data warehouses represent a significant evolution of the on-premises data
warehouse architecture and have thus led to significant changes to the organiza‐
tional architecture. Amazon Redshift kicked off the cloud data warehouse revolution.
Instead of needing to appropriately size an MPP system for the next several years and
sign a multimillion-dollar contract to procure the system, companies had the option
of spinning up a Redshift cluster on demand, scaling it up over time as data and
analytics demand grew. They could even spin up new Redshift clusters on demand
to serve specific workloads and quickly delete clusters when they were no longer
needed.
Google BigQuery, Snowflake, and other competitors popularized the idea of separat‐
ing compute from storage. In this architecture, data is housed in object storage,
allowing virtually limitless storage. This also gives users the option to spin up
computing power on demand, providing ad hoc big data capabilities without the
long-term cost of thousands of nodes.
Cloud data warehouses expand the capabilities of MPP systems to cover many big
data use cases that required a Hadoop cluster in the very recent past. They can readily
process petabytes of data in a single query. They typically support data structures that
allow the storage of tens of megabytes of raw text data per row or extremely rich and
complex JSON documents. As cloud data warehouses (and data lakes) mature, the
line between the data warehouse and the data lake will continue to blur.
100
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

