# Message Queues and Event-Streaming Platforms

Paginas: 280-280

The third trend is the emergence of data sharing (discussed in Chapter 5)—i.e., the
ability to exchange data through a standard platform such as BigQuery, Snowflake,
Redshift, or S3. Once data lands on one of these platforms, it is straightforward to
store it, process it, or move it somewhere else. Data sharing has had a large and rapid
impact in the data engineering space.
Don’t reinvent the wheel when data sharing is not an option and direct API access
is necessary. While a managed service might look like an expensive option, consider
the value of your time and the opportunity cost of building API connectors when you
could be spending your time on higher-value work.
In addition, many managed services now support building custom API connectors.
This may provide API technical specifications in a standard format or writing con‐
nector code that runs in a serverless function framework (e.g., AWS Lambda) while
letting the managed service handle the details of scheduling and synchronization.
Again, these services can be a huge time-saver for engineers, both for development
and ongoing maintenance.
Reserve your custom connection work for APIs that aren’t well supported by existing
frameworks; you will find that there are still plenty of these to work on. Handling
custom API connections has two main aspects: software development and ops. Fol‐
low software development best practices; you should use version control, continuous
delivery, and automated testing. In addition to following DevOps best practices, con‐
sider an orchestration framework, which can dramatically streamline the operational
burden of data ingestion.
Message Queues and Event-Streaming Platforms
Message queues and event-streaming platforms are widespread ways to ingest real-
time data from web and mobile applications, IoT sensors, and smart devices. As
real-time data becomes more ubiquitous, you’ll often find yourself either introducing
or retrofitting ways to handle real-time data in your ingestion workflows. As such,
it’s essential to know how to ingest real-time data. Popular real-time data ingestion
includes message queues or event-streaming platforms, which we covered in Chap‐
ter 5. Though these are both source systems, they also act as ways to ingest data. In
both cases, you consume events from the publisher you subscribe to.
Recall the differences between messages and streams. A message is handled at the
individual event level and is meant to be transient. Once a message is consumed, it
is acknowledged and removed from the queue. On the other hand, a stream ingests
events into an ordered log. The log persists for as long as you wish, allowing events
to be queried over various ranges, aggregated, and combined with other streams to
create new transformations published to downstream consumers. In Figure 7-14,
we have two producers (producers 1 and 2) sending events to two consumers
Ways to Ingest Data
|
255

