# Principle 6: Build Loosely Coupled Systems

Paginas: 106-107

9 Martin Fowler, “Who Needs an Architect?” IEEE Software, July/August 2003, https://oreil.ly/wAMmZ.
10 Google Cloud, “DevOps Tech: Architecture,” Cloud Architecture Center, https://oreil.ly/j4MT1.
Returning to the notion of technical leadership, Martin Fowler describes a specific
archetype of an ideal software architect, well embodied in his colleague Dave Rice:9
In many ways, the most important activity of Architectus Oryzus is to mentor the
development team, to raise their level so they can take on more complex issues.
Improving the development team’s ability gives an architect much greater leverage than
being the sole decision-maker and thus running the risk of being an architectural
bottleneck.
An ideal data architect manifests similar characteristics. They possess the technical
skills of a data engineer but no longer practice data engineering day to day; they
mentor current data engineers, make careful technology choices in consultation with
their organization, and disseminate expertise through training and leadership. They
train engineers in best practices and bring the company’s engineering resources
together to pursue common goals in both technology and business.
As a data engineer, you should practice architecture leadership and seek mentorship
from architects. Eventually, you may well occupy the architect role yourself.
Principle 5: Always Be Architecting
We borrow this principle directly from Google Cloud’s Five Principles for Cloud-
Native Architecture. Data architects don’t serve in their role simply to maintain the
existing state; instead, they constantly design new and exciting things in response
to changes in business and technology. Per the EABOK, an architect’s job is to
develop deep knowledge of the baseline architecture (current state), develop a target
architecture, and map out a sequencing plan to determine priorities and the order of
architecture changes.
We add that modern architecture should not be command-and-control or waterfall
but collaborative and agile. The data architect maintains a target architecture and
sequencing plans that change over time. The target architecture becomes a moving
target, adjusted in response to business and technology changes internally and world‐
wide. The sequencing plan determines immediate priorities for delivery.
Principle 6: Build Loosely Coupled Systems
When the architecture of the system is designed to enable teams to test, deploy, and
change systems without dependencies on other teams, teams require little communica‐
tion to get work done. In other words, both the architecture and the teams are loosely
coupled.
—Google DevOps tech architecture guide10
Principles of Good Data Architecture
|
81

11 “The Bezos API Mandate: Amazon’s Manifesto for Externalization,” Nordic APIs, January 19, 2021,
https://oreil.ly/vIs8m.
In 2002, Bezos wrote an email to Amazon employees that became known as the Bezos
API Mandate:11
1. All teams will henceforth expose their data and functionality through service
1.
interfaces.
2. Teams must communicate with each other through these interfaces.
2.
3. There will be no other form of interprocess communication allowed: no direct
3.
linking, no direct reads of another team’s data store, no shared-memory model,
no back-doors whatsoever. The only communication allowed is via service inter‐
face calls over the network.
4. It doesn’t matter what technology they use. HTTP, Corba, Pubsub, custom proto‐
4.
cols—doesn’t matter.
5. All service interfaces, without exception, must be designed from the ground up
5.
to be externalizable. That is to say, the team must plan and design to be able to
expose the interface to developers in the outside world. No exceptions.
The advent of Bezos’s API Mandate is widely viewed as a watershed moment for
Amazon. Putting data and services behind APIs enabled the loose coupling and
eventually resulted in AWS as we know it now. Google’s pursuit of loose coupling
allowed it to grow its systems to an extraordinary scale.
For software architecture, a loosely coupled system has the following properties:
1. Systems are broken into many small components.
1.
2. These systems interface with other services through abstraction layers, such as
2.
a messaging bus or an API. These abstraction layers hide and protect internal
details of the service, such as a database backend or internal classes and method
calls.
3. As a consequence of property 2, internal changes to a system component don’t
3.
require changes in other parts. Details of code updates are hidden behind stable
APIs. Each piece can evolve and improve separately.
4. As a consequence of property 3, there is no waterfall, global release cycle for
4.
the whole system. Instead, each component is updated separately as changes and
improvements are made.
Notice that we are talking about technical systems. We need to think bigger. Let’s
translate these technical characteristics into organizational characteristics:
82
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

