# Managed Data Connectors

Paginas: 281-281

(consumers 1 and 2). These events are combined into a new dataset and sent to a
producer for downstream consumption.
Figure 7-14. Two datasets are produced and consumed (producers 1 and 2) and then
combined, with the combined data published to a new producer (producer 3)
The last point is an essential difference between batch and streaming ingestion.
Whereas batch usually involves static workflows (ingest data, store it, transform it,
and serve it), messages and streams are fluid. Ingestion can be nonlinear, with data
being published, consumed, republished, and reconsumed. When designing your
real-time ingestion workflows, keep in mind how data will flow.
Another consideration is the throughput of your real-time data pipelines. Messages
and events should flow with as little latency as possible, meaning you should pro‐
vision adequate partition (or shard) bandwidth and throughput. Provide sufficient
memory, disk, and CPU resources for event processing, and if you’re managing your
real-time pipelines, incorporate autoscaling to handle spikes and save money as load
decreases. For these reasons, managing your streaming platform can entail significant
overhead. Consider managed services for your real-time ingestion pipelines, and
focus your attention on ways to get value from your real-time data.
Managed Data Connectors
These days, if you’re considering writing a data ingestion connector to a database
or API, ask yourself: has this already been created? Furthermore, is there a service
that will manage the nitty-gritty details of this connection for me? “APIs” on page
254 mentions the popularity of managed data connector platforms and frameworks.
These tools aim to provide a standard set of connectors available out of the box
to spare data engineers building complicated plumbing to connect to a particular
source. Instead of creating and managing a data connector, you outsource this service
to a third party.
Generally, options in the space allow users to set a target and source, ingest in various
ways (e.g., CDC, replication, truncate and reload), set permissions and credentials,
configure an update frequency, and begin syncing data. The vendor or cloud behind
the scenes fully manages and monitors data syncs. If data synchronization fails, you’ll
receive an alert with logged information on the cause of the error.
256
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

