# Build Versus Buy

Paginas: 157-157

8 Todd Hoff, “The Eternal Cost Savings of Netflix’s Internal Spot Market,” High Scalability, December 4, 2017,
https://oreil.ly/LLoFt.
9 Todd Spangler, “Netflix Bandwidth Consumption Eclipsed by Web Media Streaming Applications,” Variety,
September 10, 2019, https://oreil.ly/tTm3k.
10 Amir Efrati and Kevin McLaughlin, “Apple’s Spending on Google Cloud Storage on Track to Soar 50% This
Year,” The Information, June 29, 2021, https://oreil.ly/OlFyR.
with points of presence in over 200 cities and 51 terabits per second (Tbps) of total
network capacity.
Netflix offers yet another useful example. The company is famous for running its tech
stack on AWS, but this is only partially true. Netflix does run video transcoding on
AWS, accounting for roughly 70% of its compute needs in 2017.8 Netflix also runs
its application backend and data analytics on AWS. However, rather than using the
AWS content distribution network, Netflix has built a custom CDN in collaboration
with internet service providers, utilizing a highly specialized combination of software
and hardware. For a company that consumes a substantial slice of all internet traffic,9
building out this critical infrastructure allowed it to deliver high-quality video to a
huge customer base cost-effectively.
These case studies suggest that it makes sense for companies to manage their own
hardware and network connections in particular circumstances. The biggest modern
success stories of companies building and maintaining hardware involve extraordi‐
nary scale (exabytes of data, terabits per second of bandwidth, etc.) and limited use
cases where companies can realize a competitive advantage by engineering highly
integrated hardware and software stacks. In addition, all of these companies consume
massive network bandwidth, suggesting that data egress charges would be a major
cost if they chose to operate fully from a public cloud.
Consider continuing to run workloads on premises or repatriating cloud workloads if
you run a truly cloud-scale service. What is cloud scale? You might be at cloud scale
if you are storing an exabyte of data or handling terabits per second of traffic to and
from the internet. (Achieving a terabit per second of internal network traffic is fairly
easy.) In addition, consider owning your servers if data egress costs are a major factor
for your business. To give a concrete example of cloud scale workloads that could
benefit from repatriation, Apple might gain a significant financial and performance
advantage by migrating iCloud storage to its own servers.10
Build Versus Buy
Build versus buy is an age-old debate in technology. The argument for building
is that you have end-to-end control over the solution and are not at the mercy
of a vendor or open source community. The argument supporting buying comes
down to resource constraints and expertise; do you have the expertise to build a
132
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

