# Data Lake

Paginas: 126-126

So significant is the impact of the new capabilities offered by cloud data warehouses
that we might consider jettisoning the term data warehouse altogether. Instead, these
services are evolving into a new data platform with much broader capabilities than
those offered by a traditional MPP system.
Data marts
A data mart is a more refined subset of a warehouse designed to serve analytics and
reporting, focused on a single suborganization, department, or line of business; every
department has its own data mart, specific to its needs. This is in contrast to the full
data warehouse that serves the broader organization or business.
Data marts exist for two reasons. First, a data mart makes data more easily accessible
to analysts and report developers. Second, data marts provide an additional stage
of transformation beyond that provided by the initial ETL or ELT pipelines. This
can significantly improve performance if reports or analytics queries require complex
joins and aggregations of data, especially when the raw data is large. Transform
processes can populate the data mart with joined and aggregated data to improve
performance for live queries. Figure 3-12 shows the general workflow. We discuss
data marts, and modeling data for data marts, in Chapter 8.
Figure 3-12. ETL or ELT plus data marts
Data Lake
Among the most popular architectures that appeared during the big data era is the
data lake. Instead of imposing tight structural limitations on data, why not simply
dump all of your data—structured and unstructured—into a central location? The
data lake promised to be a democratizing force, liberating the business to drink from
a fountain of limitless data. The first-generation data lake, “data lake 1.0,” made solid
contributions but generally failed to deliver on its promise.
Data lake 1.0 started with HDFS. As the cloud grew in popularity, these data lakes
moved to cloud-based object storage, with extremely cheap storage costs and virtually
limitless storage capacity. Instead of relying on a monolithic data warehouse where
storage and compute are tightly coupled, the data lake allows an immense amount
of data of any size and type to be stored. When this data needs to be queried or
Examples and Types of Data Architecture
|
101

