# Serving Data

Paginas: 69-72

12 picture frames from me for $30 each, or $360 in total”). In this case, somebody
bought 12 picture frames for $30 each. Data modeling is critical for obtaining a clear
and current picture of business processes. A simple view of raw retail transactions
might not be useful without adding the logic of accounting rules so that the CFO
has a clear picture of financial health. Ensure a standard approach for implementing
business logic across your transformations.
Data featurization for ML is another data transformation process. Featurization
intends to extract and enhance data features useful for training ML models. Featuri‐
zation can be a dark art, combining domain expertise (to identify which features
might be important for prediction) with extensive experience in data science. For this
book, the main point is that once data scientists determine how to featurize data,
featurization processes can be automated by data engineers in the transformation
stage of a data pipeline.
Transformation is a profound subject, and we cannot do it justice in this brief intro‐
duction. Chapter 8 delves into queries, data modeling, and various transformation
practices and nuances.
Serving Data
You’ve reached the last stage of the data engineering lifecycle. Now that the data has
been ingested, stored, and transformed into coherent and useful structures, it’s time
to get value from your data. “Getting value” from data means different things to
different users.
Data has value when it’s used for practical purposes. Data that is not consumed or
queried is simply inert. Data vanity projects are a major risk for companies. Many
companies pursued vanity projects in the big data era, gathering massive datasets in
data lakes that were never consumed in any useful way. The cloud era is triggering
a new wave of vanity projects built on the latest data warehouses, object storage
systems, and streaming technologies. Data projects must be intentional across the
lifecycle. What is the ultimate business purpose of the data so carefully collected,
cleaned, and stored?
Data serving is perhaps the most exciting part of the data engineering lifecycle. This
is where the magic happens. This is where ML engineers can apply the most advanced
techniques. Let’s look at some of the popular uses of data: analytics, ML, and reverse
ETL.
Analytics
Analytics is the core of most data endeavors. Once your data is stored and trans‐
formed, you’re ready to generate reports or dashboards and do ad hoc analysis on the
data. Whereas the bulk of analytics used to encompass BI, it now includes other facets
44
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

such as operational analytics and embedded analytics (Figure 2-5). Let’s briefly touch
on these variations of analytics.
Figure 2-5. Types of analytics
Business intelligence. BI marshals collected data to describe a business’s past and cur‐
rent state. BI requires using business logic to process raw data. Note that data serving
for analytics is yet another area where the stages of the data engineering lifecycle can
get tangled. As we mentioned earlier, business logic is often applied to data in the
transformation stage of the data engineering lifecycle, but a logic-on-read approach
has become increasingly popular. Data is stored in a clean but fairly raw form,
with minimal postprocessing business logic. A BI system maintains a repository of
business logic and definitions. This business logic is used to query the data warehouse
so that reports and dashboards align with business definitions.
As a company grows its data maturity, it will move from ad hoc data analysis to
self-service analytics, allowing democratized data access to business users without
needing IT to intervene. The capability to do self-service analytics assumes that
data is good enough that people across the organization can simply access it them‐
selves, slice and dice it however they choose, and get immediate insights. Although
self-service analytics is simple in theory, it’s tough to pull off in practice. The main
reason is that poor data quality, organizational silos, and a lack of adequate data skills
often get in the way of allowing widespread use of analytics.
Operational analytics. Operational analytics focuses on the fine-grained details of
operations, promoting actions that a user of the reports can act upon immediately.
Operational analytics could be a live view of inventory or real-time dashboarding of
website or application health. In this case, data is consumed in real time, either
directly from a source system or from a streaming data pipeline. The types of
insights in operational analytics differ from traditional BI since operational analytics
is focused on the present and doesn’t necessarily concern historical trends.
Embedded analytics. You may wonder why we’ve broken out embedded analytics
(customer-facing analytics) separately from BI. In practice, analytics provided to
customers on a SaaS platform come with a separate set of requirements and
What Is the Data Engineering Lifecycle?
|
45

complications. Internal BI faces a limited audience and generally presents a limited
number of unified views. Access controls are critical but not particularly complicated.
Access is managed using a handful of roles and access tiers.
With embedded analytics, the request rate for reports, and the corresponding bur‐
den on analytics systems, goes up dramatically; access control is significantly more
complicated and critical. Businesses may be serving separate analytics and data to
thousands or more customers. Each customer must see their data and only their
data. An internal data-access error at a company would likely lead to a procedural
review. A data leak between customers would be considered a massive breach of trust,
leading to media attention and a significant loss of customers. Minimize your blast
radius related to data leaks and security vulnerabilities. Apply tenant- or data-level
security within your storage and anywhere there’s a possibility of data leakage.
Multitenancy
Many current storage and analytics systems support multitenancy in various ways.
Data engineers may choose to house data for many customers in common tables to
allow a unified view for internal analytics and ML. This data is presented externally
to individual customers through logical views with appropriately defined controls and
filters. It is incumbent on data engineers to understand the minutiae of multitenancy
in the systems they deploy to ensure absolute data security and isolation.
Machine learning
The emergence and success of ML is one of the most exciting technology revolutions.
Once organizations reach a high level of data maturity, they can begin to identify
problems amenable to ML and start organizing a practice around it.
The responsibilities of data engineers overlap significantly in analytics and ML, and
the boundaries between data engineering, ML engineering, and analytics engineering
can be fuzzy. For example, a data engineer may need to support Spark clusters that
facilitate analytics pipelines and ML model training. They may also need to provide
a system that orchestrates tasks across teams and support metadata and cataloging
systems that track data history and lineage. Setting these domains of responsibility
and the relevant reporting structures is a critical organizational decision.
The feature store is a recently developed tool that combines data engineering and
ML engineering. Feature stores are designed to reduce the operational burden for
ML engineers by maintaining feature history and versions, supporting feature sharing
among teams, and providing basic operational and orchestration capabilities, such as
backfilling. In practice, data engineers are part of the core support team for feature
stores to support ML engineering.
46
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

Should a data engineer be familiar with ML? It certainly helps. Regardless of the
operational boundary between data engineering, ML engineering, business analytics,
and so forth, data engineers should maintain operational knowledge about their
teams. A good data engineer is conversant in the fundamental ML techniques
and related data-processing requirements, the use cases for models within their
company, and the responsibilities of the organization’s various analytics teams. This
helps maintain efficient communication and facilitate collaboration. Ideally, data
engineers will build tools in partnership with other teams that neither team can make
independently.
This book cannot possibly cover ML in depth. A growing ecosystem of books, videos,
articles, and communities is available if you’re interested in learning more; we include
a few suggestions in “Additional Resources” on page 69.
The following are some considerations for the serving data phase specific to ML:
• Is the data of sufficient quality to perform reliable feature engineering? Quality
•
requirements and assessments are developed in close collaboration with teams
consuming the data.
• Is the data discoverable? Can data scientists and ML engineers easily find valua‐
•
ble data?
• Where are the technical and organizational boundaries between data engineering
•
and ML engineering? This organizational question has significant architectural
implications.
• Does the dataset properly represent ground truth? Is it unfairly biased?
•
While ML is exciting, our experience is that companies often prematurely dive into
it. Before investing a ton of resources into ML, take the time to build a solid data
foundation. This means setting up the best systems and architecture across the data
engineering and ML lifecycle. It’s generally best to develop competence in analytics
before moving to ML. Many companies have dashed their ML dreams because they
undertook initiatives without appropriate foundations.
Reverse ETL
Reverse ETL has long been a practical reality in data, viewed as an antipattern that
we didn’t like to talk about or dignify with a name. Reverse ETL takes processed data
from the output side of the data engineering lifecycle and feeds it back into source
systems, as shown in Figure 2-6. In reality, this flow is beneficial and often necessary;
reverse ETL allows us to take analytics, scored models, etc., and feed these back into
production systems or SaaS platforms.
What Is the Data Engineering Lifecycle?
|
47

