# Data Storage Systems

Paginas: 222-222

Compression also comes with disadvantages. Compressing and decompressing data
entails extra time and resource consumption to read or write data. We undertake a
more detailed discussion of compression algorithms and trade-offs in Appendix A.
Caching
We’ve already mentioned caching in our discussion of RAM. The core idea of caching
is to store frequently or recently accessed data in a fast access layer. The faster
the cache, the higher the cost and the less storage space available. Less frequently
accessed data is stored in cheaper, slower storage. Caches are critical for data serving,
processing, and transformation.
As we analyze storage systems, it is helpful to put every type of storage we utilize
inside a cache hierarchy (Table 6-1). Most practical data systems rely on many cache
layers assembled from storage with varying performance characteristics. This starts
inside CPUs; processors may deploy up to four cache tiers. We move down the
hierarchy to RAM and SSDs. Cloud object storage is a lower tier that supports
long-term data retention and durability while allowing for data serving and dynamic
data movement in pipelines.
Table 6-1. A heuristic cache hierarchy displaying storage types with approximate pricing and
performance characteristics
Storage type
Data fetch latencya Bandwidth
Price
CPU cache
1 nanosecond
1 TB/s
N/A
RAM
0.1 microseconds
100 GB/s
$10/GB
SSD
0.1 milliseconds
4 GB/s
$0.20/GB
HDD
4 milliseconds
300 MB/s
$0.03/GB
Object storage
100 milliseconds
10 GB/s
$0.02/GB per month
Archival storage
12 hours
Same as object storage once data is available
$0.004/GB per month
a A microsecond is 1,000 nanoseconds, and a millisecond is 1,000 microseconds.
We can think of archival storage as a reverse cache. Archival storage provides inferior
access characteristics for low costs. Archival storage is generally used for data back‐
ups and to meet data-retention compliance requirements. In typical scenarios, this
data will be accessed only in an emergency (e.g., data in a database might be lost and
need to be recovered, or a company might need to look back at historical data for
legal discovery).
Data Storage Systems
This section covers the major data storage systems you’ll encounter as a data engi‐
neer. Storage systems exist at a level of abstraction above raw ingredients. For exam‐
ple, magnetic disks are a raw storage ingredient, while major cloud object storage
Data Storage Systems
|
197

