# Conclusion

Paginas: 255-255

Data Architecture
Chapter 3 covers the basics of data architecture, as storage is the critical underbelly of
the data engineering lifecycle.
Consider the following data architecture tips. Design for required reliability and
durability. Understand the upstream source systems and how that data, once inges‐
ted, will be stored and accessed. Understand the types of data models and queries that
will occur downstream.
If data is expected to grow, can you negotiate storage with your cloud provider? Take
an active approach to FinOps, and treat it as a central part of architecture conversa‐
tions. Don’t prematurely optimize, but prepare for scale if business opportunities
exist in operating on large data volumes.
Lean toward fully managed systems, and understand provider SLAs. Fully managed
systems are generally far more robust and scalable than systems you have to babysit.
Orchestration
Orchestration is highly entangled with storage. Storage allows data to flow through
pipelines, and orchestration is the pump. Orchestration also helps engineers cope
with the complexity of data systems, potentially combining many storage systems and
query engines.
Software Engineering
We can think about software engineering in the context of storage in two ways. First,
the code you write should perform well with your storage system. Make sure the code
you write stores the data correctly and doesn’t accidentally cause data, memory leaks,
or performance issues. Second, define your storage infrastructure as code and use
ephemeral compute resources when it’s time to process your data. Because storage
is increasingly distinct from compute, you can automatically spin resources up and
down while keeping your data in object storage. This keeps your infrastructure clean
and avoids coupling your storage and query layers.
Conclusion
Storage is everywhere and underlays many stages of the data engineering lifecycle. In
this chapter, you learned about the raw ingredients, types, abstractions, and big ideas
around storage systems. Gain deep knowledge of the inner workings and limitations
of the storage systems you’ll use. Know the types of data, activities, and workloads
appropriate for your storage.
230
|
Chapter 6: Storage

