# Data Modeling

Paginas: 312-312

4 Figure 8-11 and the example it depicts are significantly based on “Introducing Stream—Stream Joins in
Apache Spark 2.3” by Tathagata Das and Joseph Torres (Databricks Engineering Blog, March 13, 2018).
but a variety of complications arise. For instance, the streams may have significantly
different latencies for arrival at the point where the join is handled in the streaming
system. The ad platform may provide its data with a five-minute delay. In addition,
certain events may be significantly delayed—for example, a session close event for a
user, or an event that happens on the phone offline and shows up in the stream only
after the user is back in mobile network range.
As such, typical streaming join architectures rely on streaming buffers. The buffer
retention interval is configurable; a longer retention interval requires more storage
and other resources. Events get joined with data in the buffer and are eventually
evicted after the retention interval has passed (Figure 8-11).4
Figure 8-11. An architecture to join streams buffers each stream and joins events if
related events are found during the buffer retention interval
Now that we’ve covered how queries work for batch and streaming data, let’s discuss
making your data useful by modeling it.
Data Modeling
Data modeling is something that we see overlooked disturbingly often. We often see
data teams jump into building data systems without a game plan to organize their
data in a way that’s useful for the business. This is a mistake. Well-constructed data
architectures must reflect the goals and business logic of the organization that relies
on this data. Data modeling involves deliberately choosing a coherent structure for
data and is a critical step to make data useful for the business.
Data modeling has been a practice for decades in one form or another. For example,
various types of normalization techniques (discussed in “Normalization” on page
290) have been used to model data since the early days of RDBMSs; data warehousing
modeling techniques have been around since at least the early 1990s and arguably
longer. As pendulums in technology often go, data modeling became somewhat
unfashionable in the early to mid-2010s. The rise of data lake 1.0, NoSQL, and big
Data Modeling
|
287

