# Transfer Appliances for Data Migration

Paginas: 286-286

Here is some top-level advice to be aware of before undertaking any web-scraping
project. First, ask yourself if you should be web scraping or if data is available from
a third party. If your decision is to web scrape, be a good citizen. Don’t inadvertently
create a denial-of-service (DoS) attack, and don’t get your IP address blocked. Under‐
stand how much traffic you generate and pace your web-crawling activities appropri‐
ately. Just because you can spin up thousands of simultaneous Lambda functions to
scrape doesn’t mean you should; excessive web scraping could lead to the disabling of
your AWS account.
Second, be aware of the legal implications of your activities. Again, generating DoS
attacks can entail legal consequences. Actions that violate terms of service may cause
headaches for your employer or you personally.
Third, web pages constantly change their HTML element structure, making it tricky
to keep your web scraper updated. Ask yourself, is the headache of maintaining these
systems worth the effort?
Web scraping has interesting implications for the data engineering lifecycle process‐
ing stage; engineers should think about various factors at the beginning of a web-
scraping project. What do you intend to do with the data? Are you just pulling
required fields from the scraped HTML by using Python code and then writing these
values to a database? Do you intend to maintain the complete HTML code of the
scraped websites and process this data using a framework like Spark? These decisions
may lead to very different architectures downstream of ingestion.
Transfer Appliances for Data Migration
For massive quantities of data (100 TB or more), transferring data directly over the
internet may be a slow and costly process. At this scale, the fastest, most efficient way
to move data is not over the wire but by truck. Cloud vendors offer the ability to send
your data via a physical “box of hard drives.” Simply order a storage device, called
a transfer appliance, load your data from your servers, and then send it back to the
cloud vendor, which will upload your data.
The suggestion is to consider using a transfer appliance if your data size hovers
around 100 TB. On the extreme end, AWS even offers Snowmobile, a transfer appli‐
ance sent to you in a semitrailer! Snowmobile is intended to lift and shift an entire
data center, in which data sizes are in the petabytes or greater.
Transfer appliances are handy for creating hybrid-cloud or multicloud setups. For
example, Amazon’s data transfer appliance (AWS Snowball) supports import and
export. To migrate into a second cloud, users can export their data into a Snowball
device and then import it into a second transfer appliance to move data into GCP
or Azure. This might sound awkward, but even when it’s feasible to push data over
Ways to Ingest Data
|
261

