# What Is Data Ingestion?

Paginas: 259-259

What Is Data Ingestion?
Data ingestion is the process of moving data from one place to another. Data inges‐
tion implies data movement from source systems into storage in the data engineering
lifecycle, with ingestion as an intermediate step (Figure 7-2).
Figure 7-2. Data from system 1 is ingested into system 2
It’s worth quickly contrasting data ingestion with data integration. Whereas data
ingestion is data movement from point A to B, data integration combines data from
disparate sources into a new dataset. For example, you can use data integration to
combine data from a CRM system, advertising analytics data, and web analytics to
create a user profile, which is saved to your data warehouse. Furthermore, using
reverse ETL, you can send this newly created user profile back to your CRM so
salespeople can use the data for prioritizing leads. We describe data integration more
fully in Chapter 8, where we discuss data transformations; reverse ETL is covered in
Chapter 9.
We also point out that data ingestion is different from internal ingestion within a
system. Data stored in a database is copied from one table to another, or data in
a stream is temporarily cached. We consider this another part of the general data
transformation process covered in Chapter 8.
Data Pipelines Defined
Data pipelines begin in source systems, but ingestion is the stage where data engi‐
neers begin actively designing data pipeline activities. In the data engineering space, a
good deal of ceremony occurs around data movement and processing patterns, with
established patterns such as ETL, newer patterns such as ELT, and new names for
long-established practices (reverse ETL) and data sharing.
All of these concepts are encompassed in the idea of a data pipeline. It is essential
to understand the details of these various patterns and know that a modern data
pipeline includes all of them. As the world moves away from a traditional monolithic
approach with rigid constraints on data movement, and toward an open ecosystem of
cloud services that are assembled like LEGO bricks to realize products, data engineers
prioritize using the right tools to accomplish the desired outcome over adhering to a
narrow philosophy of data movement.
In general, here’s our definition of a data pipeline:
234
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

