# DataOps

Paginas: 387-387

data products aren’t used, ask the users if they’re still needed. If not, kill off the data
product. This means one less security vulnerability floating around.
Finally, you should view access control and security not as impediments to serving
but as key enablers. We’re aware of many instances where complex, advanced data
systems were built, potentially having a significant impact on a company. Because
security was not implemented correctly, few people were allowed to access the data,
so it languished. Fine-grained, robust access control means that more interesting data
analytics and ML can be done while still protecting the business and its customers.
Data Management
You’ve been incorporating data management along the data engineering lifecycle,
and the impact of your efforts will soon become apparent as people use your data
products. At the serving stage, you’re mainly concerned with ensuring that people can
access high-quality and trustworthy data.
As we mentioned at the beginning of this chapter, trust is perhaps the most critical
variable in data serving. If people trust their data, they will use it; untrusted data
will go unused. Be sure to make data trust and data improvement an active process
by providing feedback loops. As users interact with data, they can report problems
and request improvements. Actively communicate back to your users as changes are
made.
What data do people need to do their jobs? Especially with regulatory and compli‐
ance concerns weighing on data teams, giving people access to the raw data—even
with limited fields and rows—poses a problem of tracing data back to an entity, such
as a person or a group of people. Thankfully, advancements in data obfuscation allow
you to serve synthetic, scrambled, or anonymized data to end users. These “fake”
datasets should sufficiently allow an analyst or data scientist to get the necessary
signal from the data, but in a way that makes identifying protected information
difficult. Though this isn’t a perfect process—with enough effort, many datasets can
be de-anonymized or reverse-engineered—it at least reduces the risk of data leakage.
Also, incorporate semantic and metrics layers into your serving layer, alongside
rigorous data modeling that properly expresses business logic and definitions. This
provides a single source of truth, whether for analytics, ML, reverse ETL, or other
serving uses.
DataOps
The steps you take in data management—data quality, governance, and security—are
monitored in DataOps. Essentially, DataOps operationalizes data management. The
following are some things to monitor:
362
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

