# Database Storage Engines

Paginas: 420-420

One obvious headache with this approach is that different programming languages
serialize data in different ways. To address this issue, the Arrow Project has created
software libraries for a variety of programming languages (including C, Go, Java,
JavaScript, MATLAB, Python, R, and Rust) that allow these languages to interoperate
with Arrow data in memory. In some cases, these libraries use an interface between
the chosen language and low-level code in another language (e.g., C) to read and
write from Arrow. This allows high interoperability between languages without extra
serialization overhead. For example, a Scala program can use the Java library to write
arrow data and then pass it as a message to a Python program.
Arrow is seeing rapid uptake with a variety of popular frameworks such as Apache
Spark. Arrow has also spanned a new data warehouse product; Dremio is a query
engine and data warehouse built around Arrow serialization to support fast queries.
Hybrid Serialization
We use the term hybrid serialization to refer to technologies that combine multiple
serialization techniques or integrate serialization with additional abstraction layers,
such as schema management. We cite as examples Apache Hudi and Apache Iceberg.
Hudi
Hudi stands for Hadoop Update Delete Incremental. This table management technol‐
ogy combines multiple serialization techniques to allow columnar database perfor‐
mance for analytics queries while also supporting atomic, transactional updates. A
typical Hudi application is a table that is updated from a CDC stream from a transac‐
tional application database. The stream is captured into a row-oriented serialization
format, while the bulk of the table is retained in a columnar format. A query runs
over both columnar and row-oriented files to return results for the current state of
the table. Periodically, a repacking process runs that combines the row and columnar
files into updated columnar files to maximize query efficiency.
Iceberg
Like Hudi, Iceberg is a table management technology. Iceberg can track all files that
make up a table. It can also track files in each table snapshot over time, allowing table
time travel in a data lake environment. Iceberg supports schema evolution and can
readily manage tables at a petabyte scale.
Database Storage Engines
To round out the discussion of serialization, we briefly discuss database storage
engines. All databases have an underlying storage engine; many don’t expose their
storage engines as a separate abstraction (for example, BigQuery, Snowflake). Some
(notably, MySQL) support fully pluggable storage engines. Others (e.g., SQL Server)
Serialization and Compression Technical Details
|
395

