# Throughput and Scalability

Paginas: 264-264

With asynchronous ingestion, dependencies can now operate at the level of individ‐
ual events, much as they would in a software backend built from microservices
(Figure 7-6). Individual events become available in storage as soon as they are inges‐
ted individually. Take the example of a web application on AWS that emits events into
Amazon Kinesis Data Streams (here acting as a buffer). The stream is read by Apache
Beam, which parses and enriches events, and then forwards them to a second Kinesis
stream; Kinesis Data Firehose rolls up events and writes objects to Amazon S3.
Figure 7-6. Asynchronous processing of an event stream in AWS
The big idea is that rather than relying on asynchronous processing, where a batch
process runs for each stage as the input batch closes and certain time conditions are
met, each stage of the asynchronous pipeline can process data items as they become
available in parallel across the Beam cluster. The processing rate depends on available
resources. The Kinesis Data Stream acts as the shock absorber, moderating the load
so that event rate spikes will not overwhelm downstream processing. Events will
move through the pipeline quickly when the event rate is low, and any backlog has
cleared. Note that we could modify the scenario and use a Kinesis Data Stream for
storage, eventually extracting events to S3 before they expire out of the stream.
Serialization and Deserialization
Moving data from source to destination involves serialization and deserialization. As
a reminder, serialization means encoding the data from a source and preparing data
structures for transmission and intermediate storage stages.
When ingesting data, ensure that your destination can deserialize the data it receives.
We’ve seen data ingested from a source but then sitting inert and unusable in the
destination because the data cannot be properly deserialized. See the more extensive
discussion of serialization in Appendix A.
Throughput and Scalability
In theory, your ingestion should never be a bottleneck. In practice, ingestion bottle‐
necks are pretty standard. Data throughput and system scalability become critical as
your data volumes grow and requirements change. Design your systems to scale and
shrink to flexibly match the desired data throughput.
Where you’re ingesting data from matters a lot. If you’re receiving data as it’s gener‐
ated, will the upstream system have any issues that might impact your downstream
ingestion pipelines? For example, suppose a source database goes down. When it
Key Engineering Considerations for the Ingestion Phase
|
239

