# Always Be Paranoid

Paginas: 395-395

A data engineer’s exact security and privacy responsibilities will vary significantly
between organizations. At a small startup, a data engineer may do double duty as a
data security engineer. A large tech company will have armies of security engineers
and security researchers. Even in this situation, data engineers will often be able to
identify security practices and technology vulnerabilities within their own teams and
systems that they can report and mitigate in collaboration with dedicated security
personnel.
Because security and privacy are critical to data engineering (security being an under‐
current), we want to spend some more time covering security and privacy. In this
chapter, we lay out some things data engineers should consider around security,
particularly in people, processes, and technology (in that order). This isn’t a complete
list, but it lays out the major things we wish would improve based on our experience.
People
The weakest link in security and privacy is you. Security is often compromised at the
human level, so conduct yourself as if you’re always a target. A bot or human actor is
trying to infiltrate your sensitive credentials and information at any given time. This
is our reality, and it’s not going away. Take a defensive posture with everything you do
online and offline. Exercise the power of negative thinking and always be paranoid.
The Power of Negative Thinking
In a world obsessed with positive thinking, negative thinking is distasteful. However,
American surgeon Atul Gawande wrote a 2007 op-ed in the New York Times on
precisely this subject. His central thesis is that positive thinking can blind us to the
possibility of terrorist attacks or medical emergencies and deter preparation. Negative
thinking allows us to consider disastrous scenarios and act to prevent them.
Data engineers should actively think through the scenarios for data utilization and
collect sensitive data only if there is an actual need downstream. The best way to
protect private and sensitive data is to avoid ingesting this data in the first place.
Data engineers should think about the attack and leak scenarios with any data pipe‐
line or storage system they utilize. When deciding on security strategies, ensure that
your approach delivers proper security and not just the illusion of safety.
Always Be Paranoid
Always exercise caution when someone asks you for your credentials. When in
doubt—and you should always be in extreme doubt when asked for credentials—
hold off and get second opinions from your coworkers and friends. Confirm with
other people that the request is indeed legitimate. A quick chat or phone call is
cheaper than a ransomware attack triggered through an email click. Trust nobody
370
|
Chapter 10: Security and Privacy

