# Webhooks

Paginas: 284-284

In addition, cloud vendors generally provide robust CLI-based tools. It is possible
to run complex ingestion processes simply by issuing commands to the AWS CLI.
As ingestion processes grow more complicated and the SLA grows more stringent,
engineers should consider moving to a proper orchestration system.
SSH
SSH is not an ingestion strategy but a protocol used with other ingestion strategies.
We use SSH in a few ways. First, SSH can be used for file transfer with SCP, as
mentioned earlier. Second, SSH tunnels are used to allow secure, isolated connections
to databases.
Application databases should never be directly exposed on the internet. Instead, engi‐
neers can set up a bastion host—i.e., an intermediate host instance that can connect
to the database in question. This host machine is exposed on the internet, although
locked down for minimal access from only specified IP addresses to specified ports.
To connect to the database, a remote machine first opens an SSH tunnel connection
to the bastion host and then connects from the host machine to the database.
SFTP and SCP
Accessing and sending data both from secure FTP (SFTP) and secure copy (SCP) are
techniques you should be familiar with, even if data engineers do not typically use
these regularly (IT or security/secOps will handle this).
Engineers rightfully cringe at the mention of SFTP (occasionally, we even hear instan‐
ces of FTP being used in production). Regardless, SFTP is still a practical reality for
many businesses. They work with partner businesses that consume or provide data
using SFTP and are unwilling to rely on other standards. To avoid data leaks, security
analysis is critical in these situations.
SCP is a file-exchange protocol that runs over an SSH connection. SCP can be
a secure file-transfer option if it is configured correctly. Again, adding additional
network access control (defense in depth) to enhance SCP security is highly
recommended.
Webhooks
Webhooks, as we discussed in Chapter 5, are often referred to as reverse APIs. For a
typical REST data API, the data provider gives engineers API specifications that they
use to write their data ingestion code. The code makes requests and receives data in
responses.
With a webhook (Figure 7-15), the data provider defines an API request specifica‐
tion, but the data provider makes API calls rather than receiving them; it’s the data
consumer’s responsibility to provide an API endpoint for the provider to call. The
Ways to Ingest Data
|
259

