# DataOps

Paginas: 174-174

system would realize its full potential only with some schema changes. To make mat‐
ters worse, vendors juice their systems with an extra shot of join optimization (e.g.,
preindexing joins) without applying comparable tuning in the competing database
(e.g., putting joins in a materialized view).
Caveat Emptor
As with all things in data technology, let the buyer beware. Do your homework before
blindly relying on vendor benchmarks to evaluate and choose technology.
Undercurrents and Their Impacts
on Choosing Technologies
As seen in this chapter, a data engineer has a lot to consider when evaluating technol‐
ogies. Whatever technology you choose, be sure to understand how it supports the
undercurrents of the data engineering lifecycle. Let’s briefly review them again.
Data Management
Data management is a broad area, and concerning technologies, it isn’t always appa‐
rent whether a technology adopts data management as a principal concern. For
example, behind the scenes, a third-party vendor may use data management best
practices—regulatory compliance, security, privacy, data quality, and governance—
but hide these details behind a limited UI layer. In this case, while evaluating the
product, it helps to ask the company about its data management practices. Here are
some sample questions you should ask:
• How are you protecting data against breaches, both from the outside and within?
•
• What is your product’s compliance with GDPR, CCPA, and other data privacy
•
regulations?
• Do you allow me to host my data to comply with these regulations?
•
• How do you ensure data quality and that I’m viewing the correct data in your
•
solution?
There are many other questions to ask, and these are just a few of the ways to think
about data management as it relates to choosing the right technologies. These same
questions should also apply to the OSS solutions you’re considering.
DataOps
Problems will happen. They just will. A server or database may die, a cloud’s region
may have an outage, you might deploy buggy code, bad data might be introduced into
your data warehouse, and other unforeseen problems may occur.
Undercurrents and Their Impacts on Choosing Technologies
|
149

