# Messages and Streams

Paginas: 188-188

Table 5-1. An insert-only pattern produces multiple versions of a record
Record ID
Value
Timestamp
1
40
2021-09-19T00:10:23+00:00
1
51
2021-09-30T00:12:00+00:00
In a sense, the insert-only pattern maintains a database log directly in the table itself,
making it especially useful if the application needs access to history. For example, the
insert-only pattern would work well for a banking application designed to present
customer address history.
A separate analytics insert-only pattern is often used with regular CRUD application
tables. In the insert-only ETL pattern, data pipelines insert a new record in the target
analytics table anytime an update occurs in the CRUD table.
Insert-only has a couple of disadvantages. First, tables can grow quite large, especially
if data frequently changes, since each change is inserted into the table. Sometimes
records are purged based on a record sunset date or a maximum number of record
versions to keep table size reasonable. The second disadvantage is that record lookups
incur extra overhead because looking up the current state involves running MAX
(created_timestamp). If hundreds or thousands of records are under a single ID,
this lookup operation is expensive to run.
Messages and Streams
Related to event-driven architecture, two terms that you’ll often see used interchange‐
ably are message queue and streaming platform, but a subtle but essential difference
exists between the two. Defining and contrasting these terms is worthwhile since they
encompass many big ideas related to source systems and practices and technologies
spanning the entire data engineering lifecycle.
A message is raw data communicated across two or more systems (Figure 5-4).
For example, we have System 1 and System 2, where System 1 sends a message to
System 2. These systems could be different microservices, a server sending a message
to a serverless function, etc. A message is typically sent through a message queue from
a publisher to a consumer, and once the message is delivered, it is removed from the
queue.
Figure 5-4. A message passed between two systems
Messages are discrete and singular signals in an event-driven system. For example,
an IoT device might send a message with the latest temperature reading to a message
Source Systems: Main Ideas
|
163

