# Web Scraping

Paginas: 285-285

consumer is responsible for ingesting each request and handling data aggregation,
storage, and processing.
Figure 7-15. A basic webhook ingestion architecture built from cloud services
Webhook-based data ingestion architectures can be brittle, difficult to maintain,
and inefficient. Using appropriate off-the-shelf tools, data engineers can build more
robust webhook architectures with lower maintenance and infrastructure costs. For
example, a webhook pattern in AWS might use a serverless function framework
(Lambda) to receive incoming events, a managed event-streaming platform to store
and buffer messages (Kinesis), a stream-processing framework to handle real-time
analytics (Flink), and an object store for long-term storage (S3).
You’ll notice that this architecture does much more than simply ingest the data. This
underscores ingestion’s entanglement with the other stages of the data engineering
lifecycle; it is often impossible to define your ingestion architecture without making
decisions about storage and processing.
Web Interface
Web interfaces for data access remain a practical reality for data engineers. We fre‐
quently run into situations where not all data and functionality in a SaaS platform is
exposed through automated interfaces such as APIs and file drops. Instead, someone
must manually access a web interface, generate a report, and download a file to a local
machine. This has obvious drawbacks, such as people forgetting to run the report or
having their laptop die. Where possible, choose tools and workflows that allow for
automated access to data.
Web Scraping
Web scraping automatically extracts data from web pages, often by combing the web
page’s various HTML elements. You might scrape ecommerce sites to extract product
pricing information or scrape multiple news sites for your news aggregator. Web
scraping is widespread, and you may encounter it as a data engineer. It’s also a murky
area where ethical and legal lines are blurry.
260
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

