# Databases

Paginas: 377-378

The way you serve files depends on several factors, such as these:
• Use case—business analytics, operational analytics, embedded analytics
•
• The data consumer’s data-handling processes
•
• The size and number of individual files in storage
•
• Who is accessing this file
•
• Data type—structured, semistructured, or unstructured
•
The second bullet point is one of the main considerations. It is often necessary to
serve data through files rather than data sharing because the data consumer cannot
use a sharing platform.
The simplest file to serve is something along the lines of emailing a single Excel file.
This is still a common workflow even in an era when files can be collaboratively
shared. The problem with emailing files is each recipient gets their version of the file.
If a recipient edits the file, these edits are specific to that user’s file. Deviations among
files inevitably result. And what happens if you no longer want the recipient to have
access to the file? If the file is emailed, you have very little recourse to retrieve the file.
If you need a coherent, consistent version of a file, we suggest using a collaboration
platform such as Microsoft 365 or Google Docs.
Of course, serving single files is hard to scale, and your needs will eventually outgrow
simple cloud file storage. You’ll likely grow into an object storage bucket if you have
a handful of large files, or a data lake if you have a steady supply of files. Object
storage can store any type of blob file and is especially useful for semistructured or
unstructured files.
We’ll note that we generally consider file exchange through object storage (data lake)
to land under “data sharing” rather than file exchange since the process can be
significantly more scalable and streamlined than ad hoc file exchange.
Databases
Databases are a critical layer in serving data for analytics and ML. For this discussion,
we’ll implicitly keep our focus on serving data from OLAP databases (e.g., data
warehouses and data lakes). In the previous chapter, you learned about querying
databases. Serving data involves querying a database and then consuming those
results for a use case. An analyst or data scientist might query a database by using a
SQL editor and export those results to a CSV file for consumption by a downstream
application, or analyze the results in a notebook (described in “Serving Data in
Notebooks” on page 356).
Serving data from a database carries a variety of benefits. A database imposes
order and structure on the data through schema; databases can offer fine-grained
352
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

permission controls at the table, column, and row level, allowing database adminis‐
trators to craft complex access policies for various roles; and databases can offer
high serving performance for large, computationally intensive queries and high query
concurrency.
BI systems usually share the data processing workload with a source database, but
the boundary between processing in the two systems varies. For example, a Tableau
server runs an initial query to pull data from a database and stores it locally. Basic
OLAP/BI slicing and dicing (interactive filtering and aggregation) runs directly on
the server from the local data copy. On the other hand, Looker (and similar modern
BI systems) relies on a computational model called query pushdown; Looker enco‐
des data processing logic in a specialized language (LookML), combines this with
dynamic user input to generate SQL queries, runs these against the source database,
and presents the output. (See “Semantic and Metrics Layers” on page 355.) Both
Tableau and Looker have various configuration options for caching results to reduce
the processing burden for frequently run queries.
A data scientist might connect to a database, extract data, and perform feature
engineering and selection. This converted dataset is then fed into an ML model; the
offline model is trained and produces predictive results.
Data engineers are quite often tasked with managing the database-serving layer. This
includes management of performance and costs. In databases that separate compute
and storage, this is a somewhat more subtle optimization problem than in the days
of fixed on-premises infrastructure. For example, it is now possible to spin up a
new Spark cluster or Snowflake warehouse for each analytical or ML workload. It is
generally recommended to at least split out clusters by major use cases, such as ETL
and serving for analytics and data science. Often data teams choose to slice more
finely, assigning one warehouse per major area. This makes it possible for different
teams to budget for their query costs under the supervision of a data engineering
team.
Also, recall the three performance considerations that we discussed in “Embedded
Analytics” on page 348. These are data latency, query performance, and concurrency.
A system that can ingest directly from a stream can lower data latency. And many
database architectures rely on SSD or memory caching to enhance query perfor‐
mance and concurrency to serve the challenging use cases inherent in embedded
analytics.
Increasingly, data platforms like Snowflake and Databricks allow analysts and data
scientists to operate under a single environment, providing SQL editors and data
science notebooks under one roof. Because compute and storage are separated, the
analysts and data scientists can consume the underlying data in various ways without
interfering with each other. This will allow high throughput and faster delivery of
data products to stakeholders.
Ways to Serve Data for Analytics and ML
|
353

