# What Is a Query?

Paginas: 298-298

What Is a Query?
We often run into people who know how to write SQL but are unfamiliar with how
a query works under the hood. Some of this introductory material on queries will be
familiar to experienced data engineers; feel free to skip ahead if this applies to you.
A query allows you to retrieve and act on data. Recall our conversation in Chapter 5
about CRUD. When a query retrieves data, it is issuing a request to read a pattern of
records. This is the R (read) in CRUD. You might issue a query that gets all records
from a table foo, such as SELECT * FROM foo. Or, you might apply a predicate
(logical condition) to filter your data by retrieving only records where the id is 1,
using the SQL query SELECT * FROM foo WHERE id=1.
Many databases allow you to create, update, and delete data. These are the CUD in
CRUD; your query will either create, mutate, or destroy existing records. Let’s review
some other common acronyms you’ll run into when working with query languages.
Data definition language
At a high level, you first need to create the database objects before adding data. You’ll
use data definition language (DDL) commands to perform operations on database
objects, such as the database itself, schemas, tables, or users; DDL defines the state of
objects in your database.
Data engineers use common SQL DDL expressions: CREATE, DROP, and UPDATE. For
example, you can create a database by using the DDL expression CREATE DATABASE
bar. After that, you can also create new tables (CREATE table bar_table) or delete a
table (DROP table bar_table).
Data manipulation language
After using DDL to define database objects, you need to add and alter data within
these objects, which is the primary purpose of data manipulation language (DML).
Some common DML commands you’ll use as a data engineer are as follows:
SELECT
INSERT
UPDATE
DELETE
COPY
MERGE
For example, you can INSERT new records into a database table, UPDATE existing ones,
and SELECT specific records.
Queries
|
273

