# Architecture for IoT

Paginas: 131-133

One of the central problems of managing batch and stream processing is unifying
multiple code paths. While the Kappa architecture relies on a unified queuing and
storage layer, one still has to confront using different tools for collecting real-time
statistics or running batch aggregation jobs. Today, engineers seek to solve this in
several ways. Google made its mark by developing the Dataflow model and the
Apache Beam framework that implements this model.
The core idea in the Dataflow model is to view all data as events, as the aggregation
is performed over various types of windows. Ongoing real-time event streams are
unbounded data. Data batches are simply bounded event streams, and the boundaries
provide a natural window. Engineers can choose from various windows for real-time
aggregation, such as sliding or tumbling. Real-time and batch processing happens in
the same system using nearly identical code.
The philosophy of “batch as a special case of streaming” is now more pervasive.
Various frameworks such as Flink and Spark have adopted a similar approach.
Architecture for IoT
The Internet of Things (IoT) is the distributed collection of devices, aka things—
computers, sensors, mobile devices, smart home devices, and anything else with an
internet connection. Rather than generating data from direct human input (think
data entry from a keyboard), IoT data is generated from devices that collect data
periodically or continuously from the surrounding environment and transmit it to
a destination. IoT devices are often low-powered and operate in low-resource/low
bandwidth environments.
While the concept of IoT devices dates back at least a few decades, the smartphone
revolution created a massive IoT swarm virtually overnight. Since then, numerous
new IoT categories have emerged, such as smart thermostats, car entertainment
systems, smart TVs, and smart speakers. The IoT has evolved from a futurist fantasy
to a massive data engineering domain. We expect IoT to become one of the dominant
ways data is generated and consumed, and this section goes a bit deeper than the
others you’ve read.
Having a cursory understanding of IoT architecture will help you understand broader
data architecture trends. Let’s briefly look at some IoT architecture concepts.
Devices
Devices (also known as things) are the physical hardware connected to the internet,
sensing the environment around them and collecting and transmitting data to a
downstream destination. These devices might be used in consumer applications like
a doorbell camera, smartwatch, or thermostat. The device might be an AI-powered
camera that monitors an assembly line for defective components, a GPS tracker to
106
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

record vehicle locations, or a Raspberry Pi programmed to download the latest tweets
and brew your coffee. Any device capable of collecting data from its environment is
an IoT device.
Devices should be minimally capable of collecting and transmitting data. However,
the device might also crunch data or run ML on the data it collects before sending it
downstream—edge computing and edge machine learning, respectively.
A data engineer doesn’t necessarily need to know the inner details of IoT devices but
should know what the device does, the data it collects, any edge computations or
ML it runs before transmitting the data, and how often it sends data. It also helps
to know the consequences of a device or internet outage, environmental or other
external factors affecting data collection, and how these may impact the downstream
collection of data from the device.
Interfacing with devices
A device isn’t beneficial unless you can get its data. This section covers some of the
key components necessary to interface with IoT devices in the wild.
IoT gateway. An IoT gateway is a hub for connecting devices and securely routing
devices to the appropriate destinations on the internet. While you can connect a
device directly to the internet without an IoT gateway, the gateway allows devices to
connect using extremely little power. It acts as a way station for data retention and
manages an internet connection to the final data destination.
New low-power WiFi standards are designed to make IoT gateways less critical in
the future, but these are just rolling out now. Typically, a swarm of devices will
utilize many IoT gateways, one at each physical location where devices are present
(Figure 3-16).
Figure 3-16. A device swarm (circles), IoT gateways, and message queue with messages
(rectangles within the queue)
Examples and Types of Data Architecture
|
107

Ingestion. Ingestion begins with an IoT gateway, as discussed previously. From there,
events and measurements can flow into an event ingestion architecture.
Of course, other patterns are possible. For instance, the gateway may accumulate
data and upload it in batches for later analytics processing. In remote physical envi‐
ronments, gateways may not have connectivity to a network much of the time. They
may upload all data only when they are brought into the range of a cellular or WiFi
network. The point is that the diversity of IoT systems and environments presents
complications—e.g., late-arriving data, data structure and schema disparities, data
corruption, and connection disruption—that engineers must account for in their
architectures and downstream analytics.
Storage. Storage requirements will depend a great deal on the latency requirement
for the IoT devices in the system. For example, for remote sensors collecting scientific
data for analysis at a later time, batch object storage may be perfectly acceptable.
However, near real-time responses may be expected from a system backend that
constantly analyzes data in a home monitoring and automation solution. In this case,
a message queue or time-series database is more appropriate. We discuss storage
systems in more detail in Chapter 6.
Serving. Serving patterns are incredibly diverse. In a batch scientific application, data
might be analyzed using a cloud data warehouse and then served in a report. Data
will be presented and served in numerous ways in a home-monitoring application.
Data will be analyzed in the near time using a stream-processing engine or queries
in a time-series database to look for critical events such as a fire, electrical outage,
or break-in. Detection of an anomaly will trigger alerts to the homeowner, the fire
department, or other entity. A batch analytics component also exists—for example, a
monthly report on the state of the home.
One significant serving pattern for IoT looks like reverse ETL (Figure 3-17), although
we tend not to use this term in the IoT context. Think of this scenario: data from
sensors on manufacturing devices is collected and analyzed. The results of these
measurements are processed to look for optimizations that will allow equipment to
operate more efficiently. Data is sent back to reconfigure the devices and optimize
them.
Figure 3-17. IoT serving pattern for downstream use cases
108
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

