# Transformations

Paginas: 334-334

13 Bill Inmon, “Avoiding the Horrible Task of Integrating Data,” LinkedIn Pulse, March 24, 2022,
https://oreil.ly/yLb71.
Transformations
The net result of transforming data is the ability to unify and integrate data. Once data
is transformed, the data can be viewed as a single entity. But without transforming
data, you cannot have a unified view of data across the organization.
—Bill Inmon13
Now that we’ve covered queries and data modeling, you might be wondering, if I can
model data, query it, and get results, why do I need to think about transformations?
Transformations manipulate, enhance, and save data for downstream use, increasing
its value in a scalable, reliable, and cost-effective manner.
Imagine running a query every time you want to view results from a particular
dataset. You’d run the same query dozens or hundreds of times a day. Imagine that
this query involves parsing, cleansing, joining, unioning, and aggregating across 20
datasets. To further exacerbate the pain, the query takes 30 minutes to run, consumes
significant resources, and incurs substantial cloud charges over several repetitions.
You and your stakeholders would probably go insane. Thankfully, you can save the
results of your query instead, or at least run the most compute-intensive portions only
once, so subsequent queries are simplified.
A transformation differs from a query. A query retrieves the data from various
sources based on filtering and join logic. A transformation persists the results for
consumption by additional transformations or queries. These results may be stored
ephemerally or permanently.
Besides persistence, a second aspect that differentiates transformations from queries
is complexity. You’ll likely build complex pipelines that combine data from multiple
sources and reuse intermediate results for multiple final outputs. These complex
pipelines might normalize, model, aggregate, or featurize data. While you can build
complex dataflows in single queries using common table expressions, scripts, or
DAGs, this quickly becomes unwieldy, inconsistent, and intractable. Enter transfor‐
mations.
Transformations critically rely on one of the major undercurrents in this book:
orchestration. Orchestration combines many discrete operations, such as intermedi‐
ate transformations, that store data temporarily or permanently for consumption by
downstream transformations or serving. Increasingly, transformation pipelines span
not only multiple tables and datasets but also multiple systems.
Transformations
|
309

