# The Hadoop Distributed File System

Paginas: 236-236

store. Mounting object storage as a local filesystem works well for files that are
updated infrequently.
Cache and Memory-Based Storage Systems
As discussed in “Raw Ingredients of Data Storage” on page 191, RAM offers excellent
latency and transfer speeds. However, traditional RAM is extremely vulnerable to
data loss because a power outage lasting even a second can erase data. RAM-based
storage systems are generally focused on caching applications, presenting data for
quick access and high bandwidth. Data should generally be written to a more durable
medium for retention purposes.
These ultra-fast cache systems are useful when data engineers need to serve data with
ultra-fast retrieval latency.
Example: Memcached and lightweight object caching
Memcached is a key-value store designed for caching database query results, API
call responses, and more. Memcached uses simple data structures, supporting either
string or integer types. Memcached can deliver results with very low latency while
also taking the load off backend systems.
Example: Redis, memory caching with optional persistence
Like Memcached, Redis is a key-value store, but it supports somewhat more com‐
plex data types (such as lists or sets). Redis also builds in multiple persistence
mechanisms, including snapshotting and journaling. With a typical configuration,
Redis writes data roughly every two seconds. Redis is thus suitable for extremely
high-performance applications but can tolerate a small amount of data loss.
The Hadoop Distributed File System
In the recent past, “Hadoop” was virtually synonymous with “big data.” The Hadoop
Distributed File System is based on Google File System (GFS) and was initially
engineered to process data with the MapReduce programming model. Hadoop is
similar to object storage but with a key difference: Hadoop combines compute and
storage on the same nodes, where object stores typically have limited support for
internal processing.
Hadoop breaks large files into blocks, chunks of data less than a few hundred
megabytes in size. The filesystem is managed by the NameNode, which maintains
directories, file metadata, and a detailed catalog describing the location of file blocks
in the cluster. In a typical configuration, each block of data is replicated to three
nodes. This increases both the durability and availability of data. If a disk or node
fails, the replication factor for some file blocks will fall below 3. The NameNode will
Data Storage Systems
|
211

