# Event-Driven Architecture

Paginas: 120-120

multitenant, although this multitenancy occurs at various grains. For example, a
cloud compute instance is usually on a shared server, but the VM itself provides
some degree of isolation. Object storage is a multitenant system, but cloud vendors
guarantee security and isolation so long as customers configure their permissions
correctly.
Engineers frequently need to make decisions about multitenancy at a much smaller
scale. For example, do multiple departments in a large company share the same data
warehouse? Does the organization share data for multiple large customers within the
same table?
We have two factors to consider in multitenancy: performance and security. With
multiple large tenants within a cloud system, will the system support consistent
performance for all tenants, or will there be a noisy neighbor problem? (That is,
will high usage from one tenant degrade performance for other tenants?) Regarding
security, data from different tenants must be properly isolated. When a company has
multiple external customer tenants, these tenants should not be aware of one another,
and engineers must prevent data leakage. Strategies for data isolation vary by system.
For instance, it is often perfectly acceptable to use multitenant tables and isolate
data through views. However, you must make certain that these views cannot leak
data. Read vendor or project documentation to understand appropriate strategies and
risks.
Event-Driven Architecture
Your business is rarely static. Things often happen in your business, such as getting
a new customer, a new order from a customer, or an order for a product or service.
These are all examples of events that are broadly defined as something that happened,
typically a change in the state of something. For example, a new order might be
created by a customer, or a customer might later make an update to this order.
An event-driven workflow (Figure 3-8) encompasses the ability to create, update,
and asynchronously move events across various parts of the data engineering lifecy‐
cle. This workflow boils down to three main areas: event production, routing, and
consumption. An event must be produced and routed to something that consumes
it without tightly coupled dependencies among the producer, event router, and
consumer.
Figure 3-8. In an event-driven workflow, an event is produced, routed, and then
consumed
Major Architecture Concepts
|
95

