# Software Engineering

Paginas: 389-389

their data flows, but it can increase the burden of cross-team coordination. Instead
of simply managing flows within a single system, directly triggering the completion
of DAGs or tasks belonging to other teams, teams must pass messages or queries
between systems.
A centralized approach means that work is easier to coordinate, but significant
gatekeeping must also exist to protect a single production asset. For example, a poorly
written DAG can bring Airflow to a halt. The centralized approach would mean
bringing down data processes and serving across the whole organization. Centralized
orchestration management requires high standards, automated testing of DAGs, and
gatekeeping.
If orchestration is centralized, who will own it? When a company has a DataOps
team, orchestration usually lands here. Often, a team involved in serving is a natural
fit because it has a fairly holistic view of all data engineering lifecycle stages. This
could be the DBAs, analytics engineers, data engineers, or ML engineers. ML engi‐
neers coordinate complex model-training processes but may or may not want to add
the operational complexity of managing orchestration to an already crowded docket
of responsibilities.
Software Engineering
Compared to a few years ago, serving data has become simpler. The need to write
code has been drastically simplified. Data has also become more code-first, with the
proliferation of open source frameworks focused on simplifying the serving of data.
Many ways exist to serve data to end users, and a data engineer’s focus should be on
knowing how these systems work and how data is delivered.
Despite the simplicity of serving data, if code is involved, a data engineer should
still understand how the main serving interfaces work. For example, a data engineer
may need to translate the code a data scientist is running locally on a notebook and
convert it into a report or a basic ML model to operate.
Another area where data engineers will be useful is understanding the impact of how
code and queries will perform against the storage systems. Analysts can generate
SQL in various programmatic ways, including LookML, Jinja via dbt, various object-
relational mapping (ORM) tools, and metrics layers. When these programmatic
layers compile to SQL, how will this SQL perform? A data engineer can suggest
optimizations where the SQL code might not perform as well as handwritten SQL.
The rise of analytics and ML IaC means the role of writing code is moving toward
building the systems that support data scientists and analysts. Data engineers might
be responsible for setting up the CI/CD pipelines and building processes for their
data team. They would also do well to train and support their data team in using
364
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

