# Semantic and Metrics Layers

Paginas: 380-380

In our experience, federated queries are ideally suited when you want flexibility in
analyzing data or the source data needs to be tightly controlled. Federation allows ad
hoc queries for performing exploratory analysis, blending data from various systems
without the complexity of setting up data pipelines or ETL. This will allow you to
determine whether the performance of a federated query is sufficient for ongoing
purposes or you need to set up ingestion on some or all data sources and centralize
the data in an OLAP database or data lake.
Federated queries also provide read-only access to source systems, which is great
when you don’t want to serve files, database access, or data dumps. The end user
reads only the version of the data they’re supposed to access and nothing more.
Query federation is a great option to explore for situations where access and compli‐
ance are critical.
Data Sharing
Chapter 5 includes an extensive discussion of data sharing. Any data exchange
between organizations or units within a larger organization can be viewed as data
sharing. Still, we mean specifically sharing through massively multitenant storage
systems in a cloud environment. Data sharing generally turns data serving into a
security and access control problem.
The actual queries are now handled by the data consumers (analysts and data scien‐
tists) rather than the engineers sourcing the data. Whether serving data in a data
mesh within an organization, providing data to the public, or serving to partner
businesses, data sharing is a compelling serving model. Data sharing is increasingly a
core feature of major data platforms like Snowflake, Redshift, and BigQuery allowing
companies to share data safely and securely with each other.
Semantic and Metrics Layers
When data engineers think about serving, they naturally tend to gravitate toward
the data processing and storage technologies—i.e., will you use Spark or a cloud
data warehouse? Is your data stored in object storage or cached in a fleet of SSDs?
But powerful processing engines that deliver quick query results across vast datasets
don’t inherently make for quality business analytics. When fed poor-quality data or
poor-quality queries, powerful query engines quickly return bad results.
Where data quality focuses on characteristics of the data itself and various techni‐
ques to filter or improve bad data, query quality is a question of building a query
with appropriate logic that returns accurate answers to business questions. Writing
high-quality ETL queries and reporting is time-intensive, detailed work. Various
tools can help automate this process while facilitating consistency, maintenance, and
continuous improvement.
Ways to Serve Data for Analytics and ML
|
355

