# Serving Data in Notebooks

Paginas: 381-382

4 Benn Stancil, “The Missing Piece of the Modern Data Stack,” benn.substack, April 22, 2021,
https://oreil.ly/wQyPb.
5 Srini Kadamati, “Understanding the Superset Semantic Layer,” Preset blog, December 21, 2021,
https://oreil.ly/6smWC.
Fundamentally, a metrics layer is a tool for maintaining and computing business
logic.4 (A semantic layer is extremely similar conceptually,5 and headless BI is another
closely related term.) This layer can live in a BI tool or in software that builds
transformation queries. Two concrete examples are Looker and Data Build Tool (dbt).
For instance, Looker’s LookML allows users to define virtual, complex business logic.
Reports and dashboards point to specific LookML for computing metrics. Looker
allows users to define standard metrics and reference them in many downstream
queries; this is meant to solve the traditional problem of repetition and inconsistency
in traditional ETL scripts. Looker uses LookML to generate SQL queries, which are
pushed down to the database. Results can be persisted in the Looker server or in the
database itself for large result sets.
dbt allows users to define complex SQL data flows encompassing many queries and
standard definitions of business metrics, much like Looker. Unlike Looker, dbt runs
exclusively in the transform layer, although this can include pushing queries into
views that are computed at query time. Whereas Looker focuses on serving queries
and reporting, dbt can serve as a robust data pipeline orchestration tool for analytics
engineers.
We believe that metrics layer tools will grow more popular with wider adoption and
more entrants, as well as move upstream toward the application. Metrics layer tools
help solve a central question in analytics that has plagued organizations since people
have analyzed data: “Are these numbers correct?” Many new entrants are in the space
beside the ones we’ve mentioned.
Serving Data in Notebooks
Data scientists often use notebooks in their day-to-day work. Whether it’s exploring
data, engineering features, or training a model, the data scientist will likely use a
notebook. At this writing, the most popular notebook platform is Jupyter Notebook,
along with its next-generation iteration, JupyterLab. Jupyter is open source and can
be hosted locally on a laptop, on a server, or through various cloud-managed services.
Jupyter stands for Julia, Python, and R —the latter two are popular for data science
applications, especially notebooks. Regardless of the language used, the first thing
you’ll need to consider is how data can be accessed from a notebook.
Data scientists will programmatically connect to a data source, such as an API, a
database, a data warehouse, or a data lake (Figure 9-4). In a notebook, all connections
356
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

are created using the appropriate built-in or imported libraries to load a file from a
filepath, connect to an API endpoint, or make an ODBC connection to a database.
A remote connection may require the correct credentials and privileges to establish
a connection. Once connected, a user may need the correct access to tables (and
rows/columns) or files stored in object storage. The data engineer will often assist
the data scientist in finding the right data and then ensure that they have the right
permissions to access the rows and columns required.
Let’s look at an incredibly common workflow for data scientists: running a local
notebook and loading data into a pandas dataframe. Pandas is a prevalent Python
library used for data manipulation and analysis and is commonly used to load data
(say, a CSV file) into a Jupyter notebook. When pandas loads a dataset, it stores this
dataset in memory.
Figure 9-4. A notebook can be served data from many sources, such as object storage or
a database, data warehouse, or data lake
Credential Handling
Incorrectly handled credentials in notebooks and data science code are a major
security risk; we constantly see credentials mishandled in this domain. It is common
to embed credentials directly in code, where they often leak into version control
repos. Credentials are also frequently passed around through messages and email.
We encourage data engineers to audit data science security practices and work collab‐
oratively on improvements. Data scientists are highly receptive to these conversations
if they are given alternatives. Data engineers should set standards for handling cre‐
dentials. Credentials should never be embedded in code; ideally, data scientists use
credential managers or CLI tools to manage access.
Ways to Serve Data for Analytics and ML
|
357

