# The Data Warehouse

Paginas: 240-240

Data Engineering Storage Abstractions
Data engineering storage abstractions are data organization and query patterns that
sit at the heart of the data engineering lifecycle and are built atop the data storage sys‐
tems discussed previously (see Figure 6-3). We introduced many of these abstractions
in Chapter 3, and we will revisit them here.
The main types of abstractions we’ll concern ourselves with are those that support
data science, analytics, and reporting use cases. These include data warehouse, data
lake, data lakehouse, data platforms, and data catalogs. We won’t cover source sys‐
tems, as they are discussed in Chapter 5.
The storage abstraction you require as a data engineer boils down to a few key
considerations:
Purpose and use case
You must first identify the purpose of storing the data. What is it used for?
Update patterns
Is the abstraction optimized for bulk updates, streaming inserts, or upserts?
Cost
What are the direct and indirect financial costs? The time to value? The opportu‐
nity costs?
Separate storage and compute
The trend is toward separating storage and compute, but most systems hybridize
separation and colocation. We cover this in “Separation of Compute from Stor‐
age” on page 220 since it affects purpose, speed, and cost.
You should know that the popularity of separating storage from compute means the
lines between OLAP databases and data lakes are increasingly blurring. Major cloud
data warehouses and data lakes are on a collision course. In the future, the differences
between these two may be in name only since they might functionally and technically
be very similar under the hood.
The Data Warehouse
Data warehouses are a standard OLAP data architecture. As discussed in Chapter 3,
the term data warehouse refers to technology platforms (e.g., Google BigQuery and
Teradata), an architecture for data centralization, and an organizational pattern
within a company. In terms of storage trends, we’ve evolved from building data
warehouses atop conventional transactional databases, row-based MPP systems (e.g.,
Teradata and IBM Netezza), and columnar MPP systems (e.g., Vertica and Teradata
Columnar) to cloud data warehouses and data platforms. (See our data warehousing
discussion in Chapter 3 for more details on MPP systems.)
Data Engineering Storage Abstractions
|
215

