# Orchestration Example: Airflow

Paginas: 175-175

When evaluating a new technology, how much control do you have over deploying
new code, how will you be alerted if there’s a problem, and how will you respond
when there’s a problem? The answer largely depends on the type of technology
you’re considering. If the technology is OSS, you’re likely responsible for setting up
monitoring, hosting, and code deployment. How will you handle issues? What’s your
incident response?
Much of the operations are outside your control if you’re using a managed offering.
Consider the vendor’s SLA, the way they alert you to issues, and whether they’re
transparent about how they’re addressing the case, including providing an ETA to a
fix.
Data Architecture
As discussed in Chapter 3, good data architecture means assessing trade-offs and
choosing the best tools for the job while keeping your decisions reversible. With the
data landscape morphing at warp speed, the best tool for the job is a moving target.
The main goals are to avoid unnecessary lock-in, ensure interoperability across the
data stack, and produce high ROI. Choose your technologies accordingly.
Orchestration Example: Airflow
Throughout most of this chapter, we have actively avoided discussing any particular
technology too extensively. We make an exception for orchestration because the space
is currently dominated by one open source technology, Apache Airflow.
Maxime Beauchemin kicked off the Airflow project at Airbnb in 2014. Airflow
was developed from the beginning as a noncommercial open source project. The
framework quickly grew significant mindshare outside Airbnb, becoming an Apache
Incubator project in 2016 and a full Apache-sponsored project in 2019.
Airflow enjoys many advantages, largely because of its dominant position in the open
source marketplace. First, the Airflow open source project is extremely active, with a
high rate of commits and a quick response time for bugs and security issues, and the
project recently released Airflow 2, a major refactor of the codebase. Second, Airflow
enjoys massive mindshare. Airflow has a vibrant, active community on many com‐
munications platforms, including Slack, Stack Overflow, and GitHub. Users can easily
find answers to questions and problems. Third, Airflow is available commercially as
a managed service or software distribution through many vendors, including GCP,
AWS, and Astronomer.io.
Airflow also has some downsides. Airflow relies on a few core nonscalable compo‐
nents (the scheduler and backend database) that can become bottlenecks for perfor‐
mance, scale, and reliability; the scalable parts of Airflow still follow a distributed
monolith pattern. (See “Monolith Versus Modular” on page 139.) Finally, Airflow
150
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

