# Who Should Read This Book

Paginas: 19-19

to O’Reilly books that cover the details of particular technologies, platforms, and
programming languages.
The big idea of this book is the data engineering lifecycle: data generation, storage,
ingestion, transformation, and serving. Since the dawn of data, we’ve seen the rise
and fall of innumerable specific technologies and vendor products, but the data engi‐
neering lifecycle stages have remained essentially unchanged. With this framework,
the reader will come away with a sound understanding for applying technologies to
real-world business problems.
Our goal here is to map out principles that reach across two axes. First, we wish to
distill data engineering into principles that can encompass any relevant technology.
Second, we wish to present principles that will stand the test of time. We hope that
these ideas reflect lessons learned across the data technology upheaval of the last
twenty years and that our mental framework will remain useful for a decade or more
into the future.
One thing to note: we unapologetically take a cloud-first approach. We view the
cloud as a fundamentally transformative development that will endure for decades;
most on-premises data systems and workloads will eventually move to cloud hosting.
We assume that infrastructure and systems are ephemeral and scalable, and that data
engineers will lean toward deploying managed services in the cloud. That said, most
concepts in this book will translate to non-cloud environments.
Who Should Read This Book
Our primary intended audience for this book consists of technical practitioners, mid-
to senior-level software engineers, data scientists, or analysts interested in moving
into data engineering; or data engineers working in the guts of specific technologies,
but wanting to develop a more comprehensive perspective. Our secondary target
audience consists of data stakeholders who work adjacent to technical practition‐
ers—e.g., a data team lead with a technical background overseeing a team of data
engineers, or a director of data warehousing wanting to migrate from on-premises
technology to a cloud-based solution.
Ideally, you’re curious and want to learn—why else would you be reading this book?
You stay current with data technologies and trends by reading books and articles on
data warehousing/data lakes, batch and streaming systems, orchestration, modeling,
management, analysis, developments in cloud technologies, etc. This book will help
you weave what you’ve read into a complete picture of data engineering across
technologies and paradigms.
xiv
|
Preface

