# Monolith

Paginas: 164-164

Don’t treat internal operational overhead as a sunk cost. There’s excellent value
in upskilling your existing data team to build sophisticated systems on managed
platforms rather than babysitting on-premises servers. In addition, think about how
a company makes money, especially its sales and customer experience teams, which
will generally indicate how you’re treated during the sales cycle and when you’re a
paying customer.
Finally, who is responsible for the budget at your company? How does this person
decide the projects and technologies that get funded? Before making the business case
for COSS or managed services, does it make sense to try to use OSS first? The last
thing you want is for your technology choice to be stuck in limbo while waiting for
budget approval. As the old saying goes, time kills deals. In your case, more time spent
in limbo means a higher likelihood your budget approval will die. Know beforehand
who controls the budget and what will successfully get approved.
Monolith Versus Modular
Monoliths versus modular systems is another longtime debate in the software archi‐
tecture space. Monolithic systems are self-contained, often performing multiple func‐
tions under a single system. The monolith camp favors the simplicity of having
everything in one place. It’s easier to reason about a single entity, and you can
move faster because there are fewer moving parts. The modular camp leans toward
decoupled, best-of-breed technologies performing tasks at which they are uniquely
great. Especially given the rate of change in products in the data world, the argument
is you should aim for interoperability among an ever-changing array of solutions.
What approach should you take in your data engineering stack? Let’s explore the
trade-offs.
Monolith
The monolith (Figure 4-4) has been a technology mainstay for decades. The old days
of waterfall meant that software releases were huge, tightly coupled, and moved at
a slow cadence. Large teams worked together to deliver a single working codebase.
Monolithic data systems continue to this day, with older software vendors such as
Informatica and open source frameworks such as Spark.
The pros of the monolith are it’s easy to reason about, and it requires a lower
cognitive burden and context switching since everything is self-contained. Instead of
dealing with dozens of technologies, you deal with “one” technology and typically
one principal programming language. Monoliths are an excellent option if you want
simplicity in reasoning about your architecture and processes.
Monolith Versus Modular
|
139

