# Cloud Repatriation Arguments

Paginas: 155-156

Choose technologies for the present, but look toward the future
As we mentioned in “Today Versus the Future: Immutable Versus Transitory Tech‐
nologies” on page 120, you need to keep one eye on the present while planning for
unknowns. Right now is a tough time to plan workload placements and migrations.
Because of the fast pace of competition and change in the cloud industry, the decision
space will look very different in five to ten years. It is tempting to take into account
every possible future architecture permutation.
We believe that it is critical to avoid this endless trap of analysis. Instead, plan for the
present. Choose the best technologies for your current needs and concrete plans for
the near future. Choose your deployment platform based on real business needs while
focusing on simplicity and flexibility.
In particular, don’t choose a complex multicloud or hybrid-cloud strategy unless
there’s a compelling reason. Do you need to serve data near customers on multiple
clouds? Do industry regulations require you to house certain data in your data
centers? Do you have a compelling technology need for specific services on two
different clouds? Choose a single-cloud deployment strategy if these scenarios don’t
apply to you.
On the other hand, have an escape plan. As we’ve emphasized before, every technol‐
ogy—even open source software—comes with some degree of lock-in. A single-cloud
strategy has significant advantages of simplicity and integration but comes with
significant lock-in attached. In this instance, we’re talking about mental flexibility, the
flexibility to evaluate the current state of the world and imagine alternatives. Ideally,
your escape plan will remain locked behind glass, but preparing this plan will help
you to make better decisions in the present and give you a way out if things go wrong
in the future.
Cloud Repatriation Arguments
As we wrote this book, Sarah Wang and Martin Casado published “The Cost of
Cloud, A Trillion Dollar Paradox”, an article that generated significant sound and
fury in the tech space. Readers widely interpreted the article as a call for the repa‐
triation of cloud workloads to on-premises servers. They make a somewhat more
subtle argument that companies should expend significant resources to control cloud
spending and should consider repatriation as a possible option.
We want to take a moment to dissect one part of their discussion. Wang and Casado
cite Dropbox’s repatriation of significant workloads from AWS to Dropbox-owned
servers as a case study for companies considering similar repatriation moves.
130
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

5 Raghav Bhargava, “Evolution of Dropbox’s Edge Network,” Dropbox.Tech, June 19, 2017,
https://oreil.ly/RAwPf.
6 Akhil Gupta, “Scaling to Exabytes and Beyond,” Dropbox.Tech, March 14, 2016, https://oreil.ly/5XPKv.
7 “Dropbox Migrates 34 PB of Data to an Amazon S3 Data Lake for Analytics,” AWS website, 2020,
https://oreil.ly/wpVoM.
You are not Dropbox, nor are you Cloudflare
We believe that this case study is frequently used without appropriate context and
is a compelling example of the false equivalence logical fallacy. Dropbox provides
particular services where ownership of hardware and data centers can offer a compet‐
itive advantage. Companies should not rely excessively on Dropbox’s example when
assessing cloud and on-premises deployment options.
First, it’s important to understand that Dropbox stores enormous amounts of data.
The company is tight-lipped about exactly how much data it hosts but says it is many
exabytes and continues to grow.
Second, Dropbox handles a vast amount of network traffic. We know that its band‐
width consumption in 2017 was significant enough for the company to add “hun‐
dreds of gigabits of internet connectivity with transit providers (regional and global
ISPs), and hundreds of new peering partners (where we exchange traffic directly
rather than through an ISP).”5 The data egress costs would be extremely high in a
public cloud environment.
Third, Dropbox is essentially a cloud storage vendor, but one with a highly spe‐
cialized storage product that combines object and block storage characteristics.
Dropbox’s core competence is a differential file-update system that can efficiently
synchronize actively edited files among users while minimizing network and CPU
usage. The product is not a good fit for object storage, block storage, or other
standard cloud offerings. Dropbox has instead benefited from building a custom,
highly integrated software and hardware stack.6
Fourth, while Dropbox moved its core product to its hardware, it continued building
out other AWS workloads. This allows Dropbox to focus on building one highly
tuned cloud service at an extraordinary scale rather than trying to replace multiple
services. Dropbox can focus on its core competence in cloud storage and data syn‐
chronization while offloading software and hardware management in other areas,
such as data analytics.7
Other frequently cited success stories that companies have built outside the cloud
include Backblaze and Cloudflare, but these offer similar lessons. Backblaze began life
as a personal cloud data backup product but has since begun to offer B2, an object
storage service similar to Amazon S3. Backblaze currently stores over an exabyte of
data. Cloudflare claims to provide services for over 25 million internet properties,
Location
|
131

