# Self-Service or Not?

Paginas: 366-366

3 Clayton M. Christensen et al., “Know Your Customers’ ‘Jobs to Be Done,’” Harvard Business Review, Septem‐
ber 2016, https://oreil.ly/3uU4j.
When creating a data product, it’s useful to think of the “jobs to be done.”3 A user
“hires” a product for a “job to be done.” This means you need to know what the user
wants—i.e., their motivation for “hiring” your product. A classic engineering mistake
is simply building without understanding the requirements, needs of the end user,
or product/market fit. This disaster happens when you build data products nobody
wants to use.
A good data product has positive feedback loops. More usage of a data product
generates more useful data, which is used to improve the data product. Rinse and
repeat.
When building a data product, keep these considerations in mind:
• When someone uses the data product, what do they hope to accomplish? All
•
too often, data products are made without a clear understanding of the outcome
expected by the user.
• Will the data product serve internal or external users? In Chapter 2, we discussed
•
internal- and external-facing data engineering. When creating a data product,
knowing whether your customer is internal or external facing will impact the way
data is served.
• What are the outcomes and ROI of the data product you’re building?
•
Building data products that people will use and love is critical. Nothing will ruin the
adoption of a data product more than unwanted utility and loss of trust in the data
outputs. Pay attention to the adoption and usage of data products, and be willing to
adjust to make users happy.
Self-Service or Not?
How will users interface with your data product? Will a business director request a
report from the data team, or can this director simply build the report? Self-service
data products—giving the user the ability to build data products on their own—have
been a common aspiration of data users for many years. What’s better than just giving
the end user the ability to directly create reports, analyses, and ML models?
Today, self-service BI and data science is still mostly aspirational. While we occasion‐
ally see companies successfully doing self-service with data, this is rare. Most of
the time, attempts at self-service data begin with great intentions but ultimately fail;
self-service data is tough to implement in practice. Thus, the analyst or data scientist
General Considerations for Serving Data
|
341

