# Upstream Stakeholders

Paginas: 287-287

the internet between clouds, data egress fees make this a costly proposition. Physical
transfer appliances are a cheaper alternative when the data volumes are significant.
Remember that transfer appliances and data migration services are one-time data
ingestion events and are not suggested for ongoing workloads. Suppose you have
workloads requiring constant data movement in either a hybrid or multicloud sce‐
nario. In that case, your data sizes are presumably batching or streaming much
smaller data sizes on an ongoing basis.
Data Sharing
Data sharing is growing as a popular option for consuming data (see Chapters 5
and 6). Data providers will offer datasets to third-party subscribers, either for free or
at a cost. These datasets are often shared in a read-only fashion, meaning you can
integrate these datasets with your own data (and other third-party datasets), but you
do not own the shared dataset. In the strict sense, this isn’t ingestion, where you get
physical possession of the dataset. If the data provider decides to remove your access
to a dataset, you’ll no longer have access to it.
Many cloud platforms offer data sharing, allowing you to share your data and
consume data from various providers. Some of these platforms also provide data
marketplaces where companies and organizations can offer their data for sale.
Whom You’ll Work With
Data ingestion sits at several organizational boundaries. In developing and managing
data ingestion pipelines, data engineers will work with both people and systems
sitting upstream (data producers) and downstream (data consumers).
Upstream Stakeholders
A significant disconnect often exists between those responsible for generating data
—typically, software engineers—and the data engineers who will prepare this data
for analytics and data science. Software engineers and data engineers usually sit in
separate organizational silos; if they think about data engineers, they typically see
them simply as downstream consumers of the data exhaust from their application,
not as stakeholders.
We see this current state of affairs as a problem and a significant opportunity. Data
engineers can improve the quality of their data by inviting software engineers to be
stakeholders in data engineering outcomes. The vast majority of software engineers
are well aware of the value of analytics and data science but don’t necessarily have
aligned incentives to contribute to data engineering efforts directly.
262
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

