# Chapter 11. The Future of Data Engineering

Paginas: 404-404

CHAPTER 11
The Future of Data Engineering
This book grew out of the authors’ recognition that warp speed changes in the field
have created a significant knowledge gap for existing data engineers, people interested
in moving into a career in data engineering, technology managers, and executives
who want to better understand how data engineering fits into their companies.
When we started thinking about how to organize this book, we got quite a bit of
pushback from friends who’d ask, “How dare you write about a field that is changing
so quickly?!” In many ways, they’re right. It certainly feels like the field of data
engineering—and, really, all things data—is changing daily. Sifting through the noise
and finding the signal of what’s unlikely to change was among the most challenging
parts of organizing and writing this book.
In this book, we focus on big ideas that we feel will be useful for the next several
years—hence the continuum of the data engineering lifecycle and its undercurrents.
The order of operations and names of best practices and technologies might change,
but the primary stages of the lifecycle will likely remain intact for many years to
come. We’re keenly aware that technology continues to change at an exhausting pace;
working in the technology sector in our present era can feel like a rollercoaster ride or
perhaps a hall of mirrors.
Several years ago, data engineering didn’t even exist as a field or job title. Now you’re
reading a book called Fundamentals of Data Engineering! You’ve learned all about
the fundamentals of data engineering—its lifecycle, undercurrents, technologies, and
best practices. You might be asking yourself, what’s next in data engineering? While
nobody can predict the future, we have a good perspective on the past, the present,
and current trends. We’ve been fortunate to watch the genesis and evolution of data
engineering from a front-row seat. This final chapter presents our thoughts on the
future, including observations of ongoing developments and wild future speculation.
379

