# Software Engineering

Paginas: 358-358

Data Architecture
The general rules of good data architecture in Chapter 3 apply to the transformation
stage. Build robust systems that can process and transform data without imploding.
Your choices for ingestion and storage will directly impact your general architecture’s
ability to perform reliable queries and transformations. If the ingestion and storage
are appropriate to your query and transformation patterns, you should be in a great
place. On the other hand, if your queries and transformations don’t work well with
your upstream systems, you’re in for a world of pain.
For example, we often see data teams using the wrong data pipelines and databases
for the job. A data team might connect a real-time data pipeline to an RDBMS or
Elasticsearch and use this as their data warehouse. These systems are not optimized
for high-volume aggregated OLAP queries and will implode under this workload.
This data team clearly didn’t understand how their architectural choices would
impact query performance. Take the time to understand the trade-offs inherent
in your architecture choices; be clear about how your data model will work with
ingestion and storage systems and how queries will perform.
Orchestration
Data teams often manage their transformation pipelines using simple time-based
schedules—e.g., cron jobs. This works reasonably well at first but turns into a night‐
mare as workflows grow more complicated. Use orchestration to manage complex
pipelines using a dependency-based approach. Orchestration is also the glue that
allows us to assemble pipelines that span multiple systems.
Software Engineering
When writing transformation code, you can use many languages—such as SQL,
Python, and JVM-based languages—platforms ranging from data warehouses to dis‐
tributed computing clusters, and everything in between. Each language and platform
has its strengths and quirks, so you should know the best practices of your tools. For
example, you might write data transformations in Python, powered by a distributed
system such as Spark or Dask. When running a data transformation, are you using a
UDF when a native function might work much better? We’ve seen cases where poorly
written, sluggish UDFs were replaced by a built-in SQL command, with instant and
dramatic improvement in performance.
The rise of analytics engineering brings software engineering practices to end users,
with the notion of analytics as code. Analytics engineering transformation tools like
dbt have exploded in popularity, giving analysts and data scientists the ability to write
in-database transformations using SQL, without the direct intervention of a DBA or
a data engineer. In this case, the data engineer is responsible for setting up the code
Undercurrents
|
333

