# Source System Practical Details

Paginas: 190-190

Figure 5-6. Event, ingestion, process, and processing time
Event time indicates when an event is generated in a source system, including the
timestamp of the original event itself. An undetermined time lag will occur upon
event creation, before the event is ingested and processed downstream. Always
include timestamps for each phase through which an event travels. Log events as
they occur and at each stage of time—when they’re created, ingested, and processed.
Use these timestamp logs to accurately track the movement of your data through your
data pipelines.
After data is created, it is ingested somewhere. Ingestion time indicates when an event
is ingested from source systems into a message queue, cache, memory, object storage,
a database, or any place else that data is stored (see Chapter 6). After ingestion, data
may be processed immediately; or within minutes, hours, or days; or simply persist in
storage indefinitely.
Process time occurs after ingestion time, when the data is processed (typically, a
transformation). Processing time is how long the data took to process, measured in
seconds, minutes, hours, etc.
You’ll want to record these various times, preferably in an automated way. Set up
monitoring along your data workflows to capture when events occur, when they’re
ingested and processed, and how long it took to process events.
Source System Practical Details
This section discusses the practical details of interacting with modern source systems.
We’ll dig into the details of commonly encountered databases, APIs, and other
aspects. This information will have a shorter shelf life than the main ideas discussed
previously; popular API frameworks, databases, and other details will continue to
change rapidly.
Nevertheless, these details are critical knowledge for working data engineers. We
suggest that you study this information as baseline knowledge but read extensively to
stay abreast of ongoing developments.
Source System Practical Details
|
165

