# Multicloud

Paginas: 153-153

4 Examples include Google Cloud Anthos and AWS Outposts.
This pattern of putting analytics in the cloud is beautiful because data flows primarily
in one direction, minimizing data egress costs (Figure 4-3). That is, on-premises
applications generate event data that can be pushed to the cloud essentially for free.
The bulk of data remains in the cloud where it is analyzed, while smaller amounts
of data are pushed back to on premises for deploying models to applications, reverse
ETL, etc.
Figure 4-3. A hybrid cloud data flow model minimizing egress costs
A new generation of managed hybrid cloud service offerings also allows customers
to locate cloud-managed servers in their data centers.4 This gives users the ability to
incorporate the best features in each cloud alongside on-premises infrastructure.
Multicloud
Multicloud simply refers to deploying workloads to multiple public clouds. Compa‐
nies may have several motivations for multicloud deployments. SaaS platforms often
wish to offer services close to existing customer cloud workloads. Snowflake and
Databricks provide their SaaS offerings across multiple clouds for this reason. This
is especially critical for data-intensive applications, where network latency and band‐
width limitations hamper performance, and data egress costs can be prohibitive.
Another common motivation for employing a multicloud approach is to take advan‐
tage of the best services across several clouds. For example, a company might want to
handle its Google Ads and Analytics data on Google Cloud and deploy Kubernetes
through GKE. And the company might also adopt Azure specifically for Microsoft
workloads. Also, the company may like AWS because it has several best-in-class
services (e.g., AWS Lambda) and enjoys huge mindshare, making it relatively easy
to hire AWS-proficient engineers. Any mix of various cloud provider services is
possible. Given the intense competition among the major cloud providers, expect
them to offer more best-of-breed services, making multicloud more compelling.
128
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

