# Trust

Paginas: 363-363

1 Quoted in Benjamin Snyder, “7 Insights from Legendary Investor Warren Buffett,” CNBC Make It, May 1,
2017, https://oreil.ly/QEqF9.
Second, you’ll serve data for ML applications. ML is not possible without high-quality
data, appropriately prepared. Data engineers work with data scientists and ML engi‐
neers to acquire, transform, and deliver the data necessary for model training.
Third, you’ll serve data through reverse ETL. Reverse ETL is the process of sending
data back to data sources. For example, we might acquire data from an ad tech
platform, run a statistical process on this data to determine cost-per-click bids, and
then feed this data back into the ad tech platform. Reverse ETL is highly entangled
with BI and ML.
Before we get into these three major ways of serving data, let’s look at some general
considerations.
General Considerations for Serving Data
Before we get further into serving data, we have a few big considerations. First and
foremost is trust. People need to trust the data you’re providing. Additionally, you
need to understand your use cases and users, the data products that will be produced,
how you’ll be serving data (self-service or not), data definitions and logic, and data
mesh. The considerations we’ll discuss here are general and apply to any of the three
ways of serving data. Understanding these considerations will help you be much
more effective in serving your data customers.
Trust
It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about
that, you’ll do things differently.
—Warren Buffett1
Above all else, trust is the root consideration in serving data; end users need to trust
the data they’re receiving. The fanciest, most sophisticated data architecture and serv‐
ing layer are irrelevant if end users don’t believe the data is a reliable representation of
their business. A loss of trust is often a silent death knell for a data project, even if the
project isn’t officially canceled until months or years later. The job of a data engineer
is to serve the best data possible, so you’ll want to make sure your data products
always contain high-quality and trustworthy data.
As you learn to serve data throughout this chapter, we’ll reinforce the idea of baking
trust into your data and discuss pragmatic ways to accomplish this. We see too many
cases in which data teams are fixated on pushing out data without asking whether
stakeholders trust it in the first place. Often, stakeholders lose trust in the data. Once
338
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

