# Titles and Responsibilities Will Morph...

Paginas: 409-409

This allows data engineers working on new tooling to find opportunities in the
abstractions of data management, DataOps, and all the other undercurrents of data
engineering. Data engineers will become “enterprisey.” Speaking of which…
Titles and Responsibilities Will Morph...
While the data engineering lifecycle isn’t going anywhere anytime soon, the bound‐
aries between software engineering, data engineering, data science, and ML engi‐
neering are increasingly fuzzy. In fact, like the authors, many data scientists are
transformed into data engineers through an organic process; tasked with doing “data
science” but lacking the tools to do their jobs, they take on the job of designing and
building systems to serve the data engineering lifecycle.
As simplicity moves up the stack, data scientists will spend a smaller slice of their
time gathering and munging data. But this trend will extend beyond data scientists.
Simplification also means data engineers will spend less time on low-level tasks in the
data engineering lifecycle (managing servers, configuration, etc.), and “enterprisey”
data engineering will become more prevalent.
As data becomes more tightly embedded in every business’s processes, new roles
will emerge in the realm of data and algorithms. One possibility is a role that sits
between ML engineering and data engineering. As ML toolsets become easier to use
and managed cloud ML services grow in capabilities, ML is shifting away from ad hoc
exploration and model development to become an operational discipline.
This new ML-focused engineer who straddles this divide will know algorithms, ML
techniques, model optimization, model monitoring, and data monitoring. However,
their primary role will be to create or utilize the systems that automatically train
models, monitor performance, and operationalize the full ML process for model
types that are well understood. They will also monitor data pipelines and quality,
overlapping into the current realm of data engineering. ML engineers will become
more specialized to work on model types that are closer to research and less well
understood.
Another area in which titles may morph is at the intersection of software engineering
and data engineering. Data applications, which blend traditional software applica‐
tions with analytics, will drive this trend. Software engineers will need to have a much
deeper understanding of data engineering. They will develop expertise in things like
streaming, data pipelines, data modeling, and data quality. We will move beyond the
“throw it over the wall” approach that is now pervasive. Data engineers will be inte‐
grated into application development teams, and software developers will acquire data
engineering skills. The boundaries that exist between application backend systems
and data engineering tools will be lowered as well, with deep integration through
streaming and event-driven architectures.
384
|
Chapter 11: The Future of Data Engineering

