# Asymmetric Optimization

Paginas: 173-173

13 Justin Olsson and Reynold Xin, “Eliminating the Anti-competitive DeWitt Clause for Database Benchmark‐
ing,” Databricks, November 8, 2021, https://oreil.ly/3iFOE.
14 For a classic of the genre, see William McKnight and Jake Dolezal, “Data Warehouse in the Cloud Bench‐
mark,” GigaOm, February 7, 2019, https://oreil.ly/QjCmA.
We see such apples-to-oranges comparisons made all the time in the database space.
Benchmarks either compare databases that are optimized for completely different use
cases, or use test scenarios that bear no resemblance to real-world needs.
Recently, we saw a new round of benchmark wars flare up among major vendors in
the data space. We applaud benchmarks and are glad to see many database vendors
finally dropping DeWitt clauses from their customer contracts.13 Even so, let the
buyer beware: the data space is full of nonsensical benchmarks.14 Here are a few
common tricks used to place a thumb on the benchmark scale.
Big Data...for the 1990s
Products that claim to support “big data” at petabyte scale will often use benchmark
datasets small enough to easily fit in the storage on your smartphone. For systems
that rely on caching layers to deliver performance, test datasets fully reside in solid-
state drive (SSD) or memory, and benchmarks can show ultra-high performance by
repeatedly querying the same data. A small test dataset also minimizes RAM and SSD
costs when comparing pricing.
To benchmark for real-world use cases, you must simulate anticipated real-world data
and query size. Evaluate query performance and resource costs based on a detailed
evaluation of your needs.
Nonsensical Cost Comparisons
Nonsensical cost comparisons are a standard trick when analyzing a price/perfor‐
mance or TCO. For instance, many MPP systems can’t be readily created and deleted
even when they reside in a cloud environment; these systems run for years on end
once they’ve been configured. Other databases support a dynamic compute model
and charge either per query or per second of use. Comparing ephemeral and non-
ephemeral systems on a cost-per-second basis is nonsensical, but we see this all the
time in benchmarks.
Asymmetric Optimization
The deceit of asymmetric optimization appears in many guises, but here’s one exam‐
ple. Often a vendor will compare a row-based MPP system against a columnar data‐
base by using a benchmark that runs complex join queries on highly normalized data.
The normalized data model is optimal for the row-based system, but the columnar
148
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

