# Frequency

Paginas: 262-262

practical purposes for the vast majority of data you’ll handle in a business context.
For example, an online retailer will process customer transactions 24 hours a day
until the business fails, the economy grinds to a halt, or the sun explodes.
Business processes have long imposed artificial bounds on data by cutting discrete
batches. Keep in mind the true unboundedness of your data; streaming ingestion
systems are simply a tool for preserving the unbounded nature of data so that
subsequent steps in the lifecycle can also process it continuously.
Frequency
One of the critical decisions that data engineers must make in designing data-
ingestion processes is the data-ingestion frequency. Ingestion processes can be batch,
micro-batch, or real-time.
Ingestion frequencies vary dramatically from slow to fast (Figure 7-4). On the slow
end, a business might ship its tax data to an accounting firm once a year. On the
faster side, a CDC system could retrieve new log updates from a source database once
a minute. Even faster, a system might continuously ingest events from IoT sensors
and process these within seconds. Data-ingestion frequencies are often mixed in a
company, depending on the use case and technologies.
Figure 7-4. The spectrum batch to real-time ingestion frequencies
We note that “real-time” ingestion patterns are becoming increasingly common.
We put “real-time” in quotation marks because no ingestion system is genuinely
real-time. Any database, queue or pipeline has inherent latency in delivering data to a
target system. It is more accurate to speak of near real-time, but we often use real-time
for brevity. The near real-time pattern generally does away with an explicit update
frequency; events are processed in the pipeline either one by one as they arrive or in
micro-batches (i.e., batches over concise time intervals). For this book, we will use
real-time and streaming interchangeably.
Even with a streaming data-ingestion process, batch processing downstream is rela‐
tively standard. At the time of this writing, ML models are typically trained on a
batch basis, although continuous online training is becoming more prevalent. Rarely
do data engineers have the option to build a purely near real-time pipeline with no
batch components. Instead, they choose where batch boundaries will occur—i.e., the
Key Engineering Considerations for the Ingestion Phase
|
237

