# Principle 9: Embrace FinOps

Paginas: 110-111

15 Ericka Chickowski, “Leaky Buckets: 10 Worst Amazon S3 Breaches,” Bitdefender Business Insights blog,
Jan 24, 2018, https://oreil.ly/pFEFO.
16 FinOps Foundation, “What Is FinOps,” https://oreil.ly/wJFVn.
17 J. R. Storment and Mike Fuller, Cloud FinOps (Sebastapol, CA: O’Reilly, 2019), https://oreil.ly/QV6vF.
AWS is responsible for protecting the infrastructure that runs AWS services in the
AWS Cloud. AWS also provides you with services that you can use securely.
AWS users are responsible for security in the cloud:
Your responsibility is determined by the AWS service that you use. You are also
responsible for other factors including the sensitivity of your data, your organization’s
requirements, and applicable laws and regulations.
In general, all cloud providers operate on some form of this shared responsibility
model. They secure their services according to published specifications. Still, it is
ultimately the user’s responsibility to design a security model for their applications
and data and leverage cloud capabilities to realize this model.
Data engineers as security engineers
In the corporate world today, a command-and-control approach to security is quite
common, wherein security and networking teams manage perimeters and general
security practices. The cloud pushes this responsibility out to engineers who are not
explicitly in security roles. Because of this responsibility, in conjunction with more
general erosion of the hard security perimeter, all data engineers should consider
themselves security engineers.
Failure to assume these new implicit responsibilities can lead to dire consequences.
Numerous data breaches have resulted from the simple error of configuring Amazon
S3 buckets with public access.15 Those who handle data must assume that they are
ultimately responsible for securing it.
Principle 9: Embrace FinOps
Let’s start by considering a couple of definitions of FinOps. First, the FinOps Founda‐
tion offers this:16
FinOps is an evolving cloud financial management discipline and cultural practice that
enables organizations to get maximum business value by helping engineering, finance,
technology, and business teams to collaborate on data-driven spending decisions.
In addition, J. R. Sorment and Mike Fuller provide the following definition in Cloud
FinOps:17
The term “FinOps” typically refers to the emerging professional movement that advo‐
cates a collaborative working relationship between DevOps and Finance, resulting in
Principles of Good Data Architecture
|
85

an iterative, data-driven management of infrastructure spending (i.e., lowering the
unit economics of cloud) while simultaneously increasing the cost efficiency and,
ultimately, the profitability of the cloud environment.
The cost structure of data has evolved dramatically during the cloud era. In an
on-premises setting, data systems are generally acquired with a capital expenditure
(described more in Chapter 4) for a new system every few years in an on-premises
setting. Responsible parties have to balance their budget against desired compute
and storage capacity. Overbuying entails wasted money, while underbuying means
hampering future data projects and driving significant personnel time to control
system load and data size; underbuying may require faster technology refresh cycles,
with associated extra costs.
In the cloud era, most data systems are pay-as-you-go and readily scalable. Systems
can run on a cost-per-query model, cost-per-processing-capacity model, or another
variant of a pay-as-you-go model. This approach can be far more efficient than the
capital expenditure approach. It is now possible to scale up for high performance,
and then scale down to save money. However, the pay-as-you-go approach makes
spending far more dynamic. The new challenge for data leaders is to manage budgets,
priorities, and efficiency.
Cloud tooling necessitates a set of processes for managing spending and resources. In
the past, data engineers thought in terms of performance engineering—maximizing
the performance for data processes on a fixed set of resources and buying adequate
resources for future needs. With FinOps, engineers need to learn to think about the
cost structures of cloud systems. For example, what is the appropriate mix of AWS
spot instances when running a distributed cluster? What is the most appropriate
approach for running a sizable daily job in terms of cost-effectiveness and perfor‐
mance? When should the company switch from a pay-per-query model to reserved
capacity?
FinOps evolves the operational monitoring model to monitor spending on an ongo‐
ing basis. Rather than simply monitor requests and CPU utilization for a web server,
FinOps might monitor the ongoing cost of serverless functions handling traffic, as
well as spikes in spending trigger alerts. Just as systems are designed to fail gracefully
in excessive traffic, companies may consider adopting hard limits for spending, with
graceful failure modes in response to spending spikes.
Ops teams should also think in terms of cost attacks. Just as a distributed denial-of-
service (DDoS) attack can block access to a web server, many companies have discov‐
ered to their chagrin that excessive downloads from S3 buckets can drive spending
through the roof and threaten a small startup with bankruptcy. When sharing data
publicly, data teams can address these issues by setting requester-pays policies, or
simply monitoring for excessive data access spending and quickly removing access if
spending begins to rise to unacceptable levels.
86
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

