# Batch Ingestion Considerations

Paginas: 269-270

Push Versus Pull Versus Poll Patterns
We mentioned push versus pull when we introduced the data engineering lifecycle
in Chapter 2. A push strategy (Figure 7-7) involves a source system sending data to
a target, while a pull strategy (Figure 7-8) entails a target reading data directly from
a source. As we mentioned in that discussion, the lines between these strategies are
blurry.
Figure 7-7. Pushing data from source to destination
Figure 7-8. A destination pulling data from a source
Another pattern related to pulling is polling for data (Figure 7-9). Polling involves
periodically checking a data source for any changes. When changes are detected, the
destination pulls the data as it would in a regular pull situation.
Figure 7-9. Polling for changes in a source system
Batch Ingestion Considerations
Batch ingestion, which involves processing data in bulk, is often a convenient way to
ingest data. This means that data is ingested by taking a subset of data from a source
system, based either on a time interval or the size of accumulated data (Figure 7-10).
244
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

Figure 7-10. Time-interval batch ingestion
Time-interval batch ingestion is widespread in traditional business ETL for data ware‐
housing. This pattern is often used to process data once a day, overnight during
off-hours, to provide daily reporting, but other frequencies can also be used.
Size-based batch ingestion (Figure 7-11) is quite common when data is moved from
a streaming-based system into object storage; ultimately, you must cut the data into
discrete blocks for future processing in a data lake. Some size-based ingestion systems
can break data into objects based on various criteria, such as the size in bytes of the
total number of events.
Figure 7-11. Size-based batch ingestion
Some commonly used batch ingestion patterns, which we discuss in this section,
include the following:
• Snapshot or differential extraction
•
• File-based export and ingestion
•
• ETL versus ELT
•
• Inserts, updates, and batch size
•
• Data migration
•
Batch Ingestion Considerations
|
245

