# Data Products

Paginas: 365-365

2 D. J. Patil, “Data Jujitsu: The Art of Turning Data into Product,” O’Reilly Radar, July 17, 2012,
https://oreil.ly/IYS9x.
use case—e.g., to train an ML model that does lead scoring and populates a CRM
(reverse ETL). High-quality, high-impact data will inherently attract many interesting
use cases. But in seeking use cases, always ask, “What action will this data trigger, and
who will be performing this action?,” with the appropriate follow-up question, “Can
this action be automated?”
Whenever possible, prioritize use cases with the highest possible ROI. Data engineers
love to obsess over the technical implementation details of the systems they build
while ignoring the basic question of purpose. Engineers want to do what they do best:
engineer things. When engineers recognize the need to focus on value and use cases,
they become much more valuable and effective in their roles.
When starting a new data project, working backward is helpful. While it’s tempting
to focus on tools, we encourage you to start with the use case and the users. Here are
some questions to ask yourself as you get started:
• Who will use the data, and how will they use it?
•
• What do stakeholders expect?
•
• How can I collaborate with data stakeholders (e.g., data scientists, analysts, busi‐
•
ness users) to understand how the data I’m working with will be used?
Again, always approach data engineering from the perspective of the user and their
use case. By understanding their expectations and goals, you can work backward to
create amazing data products more easily. Let’s take a moment to expand on our
discussion of a data product.
Data Products
A good definition of a data product is a product that facilitates an end goal through the
use of data.
—D. J. Patil2
Data products aren’t created in a vacuum. Like so many other organizational pro‐
cesses that we’ve discussed, making data products is a full-contact sport, involving
a mix of product and business alongside technology. It’s important to involve key
stakeholders in developing a data product. In most companies, a data engineer is a
couple of steps removed from the end users of a data product; a good data engineer
will seek to fully understand outcomes for direct users such as data analysts and data
scientists or customers external to the company.
340
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

