# Security

Paginas: 355-355

products and apps. A data engineer might work alongside “the business” and techni‐
cal stakeholders on a data model.
The data engineer needs to be involved in designing the data model and later updates
because of changes in business logic or new processes. Transformations are easy
enough to do; just write a query and plop the results into a table or view. Creating
them so they’re both performant and valuable to the business is another matter.
Always keep the requirements and expectations of the business top of mind when
transforming data.
The stakeholders of the upstream systems want to make sure your queries and trans‐
formations minimally impact their systems. Ensure bidirectional communication
about changes to the data models (column and index changes, for example) in source
systems, as these can directly impact queries, transformations, and analytical data
models. Data engineers should know about schema changes, including the addition
or deletion of fields, data type changes, and anything else that might materially
impact the ability to query and transform data.
Downstream Stakeholders
Transformations are where data starts providing utility to downstream stakeholders.
Your downstream stakeholders include many people, including data analysts, data
scientists, ML engineers, and “the business.” Collaborate with them to ensure the
data model and transformations you provide are performant and useful. In terms of
performance, queries should execute as quickly as possible in the most cost-effective
way. What do we mean by useful? Analysts, data scientists, and ML engineers should
be able to query a data source with the confidence the data is of the highest quality
and completeness and can be integrated into their workflows and data products. The
business should be able to trust that transformed data is accurate and actionable.
Undercurrents
The transformation stage is where your data mutates and morphs into something
useful for the business. Because there are many moving parts, the undercurrents are
especially critical at this stage.
Security
Queries and transformations combine disparate datasets into new datasets. Who has
access to this new dataset? If someone does have access to a dataset, continue to
control who has access to a dataset’s column, row, and cell-level access.
Be aware of attack vectors against your database at query time. Read/write privileges
to the database must be tightly monitored and controlled. Query access to the
330
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

