# Security

Paginas: 386-386

instances where serving data highlights something missed earlier in the lifecycle.
Always be on the lookout for how the undercurrents can help you spot ways to
improve data products.
We’re fond of saying, “Data is a silent killer,” and the undercurrents come to a head in
the serving stage. Serving is your final chance to make sure your data is in great shape
before it gets into the hands of end users.
Security
The same security principles apply whether sharing data with people or systems. We
often see data shared indiscriminately, with little to no access controls or thought as
to what the data will be used for. This is a huge mistake that can have catastrophic
results, such as a data breach and the resulting fines, bad press, and lost jobs. Take
security seriously, especially in this stage of the lifecycle. Of all the lifecycle stages,
serving presents the largest security surface.
As always, exercise the principle of least privilege both for people and systems, and
provide only the access required for the purpose at hand and the job to be done.
What data does an executive need versus an analyst or data scientist? What about an
ML pipeline or reverse ETL process? These users and destinations all have different
data needs, and access should be provided accordingly. Avoid giving carte blanche
permissions to everyone and everything.
Serving data is often read-only unless a person or process needs to update data in the
system from which it is queried. People should be given read-only access to specific
databases and datasets unless their role requires something more advanced like write
or update access. This can be accomplished by combining groups of users with
certain IAM roles (i.e., analysts group, data scientist group) or custom IAM roles if
this makes sense. For systems, provide service accounts and roles in a similar fashion.
For both users and systems, narrow access to a dataset’s fields, rows, columns, and
cells if this is warranted. Access controls should be as fine-grained as possible and
revoked when access is no longer required.
Access controls are critical when serving data in a multitenant environment. Make
sure users can access only their data and nothing more. A good approach is to
mediate access through filtered views, thus alleviating the security risks inherent in
sharing access to a common table. Another suggestion is to use data sharing in your
workflows, which allows for read-only granular controls between you and people
consuming your data.
Check how often data products are used and whether it makes sense to stop sharing
certain data products. It’s extremely common for an executive to urgently request
an analyst to create a report, only to have this report very quickly go unused. If
Undercurrents
|
361

