# Columnar Serialization

Paginas: 418-419

Columnar Serialization
The serialization formats we’ve discussed so far are row-oriented. Data is encoded as
complete relations (CSV) or documents (XML and JSON), and these are written into
files sequentially.
With columnar serialization, data organization is essentially pivoted by storing each
column into its own set of files. One obvious advantage to columnar storage is that it
allows us to read data from only a subset of fields rather than having to read full rows
at once. This is a common scenario in analytics applications and can dramatically
reduce the amount of data that must be scanned to execute a query.
Storing data as columns also puts similar values next to each other, allowing us
to encode columnar data efficiently. One common technique involves looking for
repeated values and tokenizing these, a simple but highly efficient compression
method for columns with large numbers of repeats.
Even when columns don’t contain large numbers of repeated values, they may mani‐
fest high redundancy. Suppose that we organized customer support messages into a
single column of data. We likely see the same themes and verbiage again and again
across these messages, allowing data compression algorithms to realize a high ratio.
For this reason, columnar storage is usually combined with compression, allowing us
to maximize disk and network bandwidth resources.
Columnar storage and compression come with some disadvantages too. We cannot
easily access individual data records; we must reconstruct records by reading data
from several column files. Record updates are also challenging. To change one field
in one record, we must decompress the column file, modify it, recompress it, and
write it back to storage. To avoid rewriting full columns on each update, columns
are broken into many files, typically using partitioning and clustering strategies that
organize data according to query and update patterns for the table. Even so, the
overhead for updating a single row is horrendous. Columnar databases are a terrible
fit for transactional workloads, so transactional databases generally utilize some form
of row- or record-oriented storage.
Parquet
Parquet stores data in a columnar format and is designed to realize excellent read and
write performance in a data lake environment. Parquet solves a few problems that
frequently bedevil data engineers. Parquet-encoded data builds in schema informa‐
tion and natively supports nested data, unlike CSV. Furthermore, Parquet is portable;
while databases such as BigQuery and Snowflake serialize data in proprietary col‐
umnar formats and offer excellent query performance on data stored internally, a
huge performance hit occurs when interoperating with external tools. Data must be
Serialization and Compression Technical Details
|
393

1 Dejan Simic, “Apache Arrow: Read DataFrame with Zero Memory,” Towards Data Science, June 25, 2020,
https://oreil.ly/TDAdY.
deserialized, reserialized into an exchangeable format, and exported to use data lake
tools such as Spark and Presto. Parquet files in a data lake may be a superior option to
proprietary cloud data warehouses in a polyglot tool environment.
Parquet format is used with various compression algorithms; speed optimized com‐
pression algorithms such as Snappy (discussed later in this appendix) are especially
popular.
ORC
Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) is a columnar storage format similar to Parquet.
ORC was very popular for use with Apache Hive; while still widely used, we generally
see it much less than Apache Parquet, and it enjoys somewhat less support in modern
cloud ecosystem tools. For example, Snowflake and BigQuery support Parquet file
import and export; while they can read from ORC files, neither tool can export to
ORC.
Apache Arrow or in-memory serialization
When we introduced serialization as a storage raw ingredient at the beginning
of this chapter, we mentioned that software could store data in complex objects
scattered in memory and connected by pointers, or more orderly, densely packed
structures such as Fortran and C arrays. Generally, densely packed in-memory data
structures were limited to simple types (e.g., INT64) or fixed-width data structures
(e.g., fixed-width strings). More complex structures (e.g., JSON documents) could
not be densely stored in memory and required serialization for storage and transfer
between systems.
The idea of Apache Arrow is to rethink serialization by utilizing a binary data format
that is suitable for both in-memory processing and export.1 This allows us to avoid
the overhead of serialization and deserialization; we simply use the same format for
in-memory processing, export over the network, and long-term storage. Arrow relies
on columnar storage, where each column essentially gets its own chunks of memory.
For nested data, we use a technique called shredding, which maps each location in the
schema of JSON documents into a separate column.
This technique means that we can store a data file on disk, swap it directly into
program address space by using virtual memory, and begin running a query against
the data without deserialization overhead. In fact, we can swap chunks of the file into
memory as we scan it, and then swap them back out to avoid running out of memory
for large datasets.
394
|
Appendix A: Serialization and Compression Technical Details

