# Data Engineers Inside an Organization

Paginas: 47-47

10 Robert Chang, “Doing Data Science at Twitter,” Medium, June 20, 2015, https://oreil.ly/xqjAx.
at some critical distinctions in the kinds of work data engineers do. Though these
distinctions are simplistic, they clarify what data scientists and data engineers do and
avoid lumping either role into the unicorn bucket.
In data science, there’s the notion of type A and type B data scientists.10 Type A
data scientists—where A stands for analysis—focus on understanding and deriving
insight from data. Type B data scientists—where B stands for building—share similar
backgrounds as type A data scientists and possess strong programming skills. The
type B data scientist builds systems that make data science work in production.
Borrowing from this data scientist continuum, we’ll create a similar distinction for
two types of data engineers:
Type A data engineers
A stands for abstraction. In this case, the data engineer avoids undifferentiated
heavy lifting, keeping data architecture as abstract and straightforward as pos‐
sible and not reinventing the wheel. Type A data engineers manage the data
engineering lifecycle mainly by using entirely off-the-shelf products, managed
services, and tools. Type A data engineers work at companies across industries
and at all levels of data maturity.
Type B data engineers
B stands for build. Type B data engineers build data tools and systems that
scale and leverage a company’s core competency and competitive advantage. In
the data maturity range, a type B data engineer is more commonly found at
companies in stage 2 and 3 (scaling and leading with data), or when an initial
data use case is so unique and mission-critical that custom data tools are required
to get started.
Type A and type B data engineers may work in the same company and may even
be the same person! More commonly, a type A data engineer is first hired to set the
foundation, with type B data engineer skill sets either learned or hired as the need
arises within a company.
Data Engineers Inside an Organization
Data engineers don’t work in a vacuum. Depending on what they’re working on,
they will interact with technical and nontechnical people and face different directions
(internal and external). Let’s explore what data engineers do inside an organization
and with whom they interact.
22
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

