# Materialized Views, Federation, and Query Virtualization

Paginas: 348-350

18 “What Is the Difference Between Apache Spark and Hadoop MapReduce?,” Knowledge Powerhouse YouTube
video, May 20, 2017, https://oreil.ly/WN0eX.
simplifies state and workflow management and minimizes memory consumption, but
it can also drive high-disk bandwidth utilization and increase processing time.
The MapReduce paradigm was constructed around the idea that magnetic disk
capacity and bandwidth were so cheap that it made sense to simply throw a massive
amount of disk at data to realize ultra-fast queries. This worked to an extent; Map‐
Reduce repeatedly set data processing records during the early days of Hadoop.
However, we have lived in a post-MapReduce world for quite some time. Post-
MapReduce processing does not truly discard MapReduce; it still includes the ele‐
ments of map, shuffle, and reduce, but it relaxes the constraints of MapReduce to
allow for in-memory caching.18 Recall that RAM is much faster than SSD and HDDs
in transfer speed and seek time. Persisting even a tiny amount of judiciously chosen
data in memory can dramatically speed up specific data processing tasks and utterly
crush the performance of MapReduce.
For example, Spark, BigQuery, and various other data processing frameworks were
designed around in-memory processing. These frameworks treat data as a distributed
set that resides in memory. If data overflows available memory, this causes a spill to
disk. The disk is treated as a second-class data-storage layer for processing, though it
is still highly valuable.
The cloud is one of the drivers for the broader adoption of memory caching; it
is much more effective to lease memory during a specific processing job than to
own it 24 hours a day. Advancements in leveraging memory for transformations will
continue to yield gains for the foreseeable future.
Materialized Views, Federation, and Query Virtualization
In this section, we look at several techniques that virtualize query results by present‐
ing them as table-like objects. These techniques can become part of a transformation
pipeline or sit right before end-user data consumption.
Views
First, let’s review views to set the stage for materialized views. A view is a database
object that we can select from just like any other table. In practice, a view is just a
query that references other tables. When we select from a view, that database creates
a new query that combines the view subquery with our query. The query optimizer
then optimizes and runs the full query.
Transformations
|
323

Views play a variety of roles in a database. First, views can serve a security role.
For example, views can select only specific columns and filter rows, thus providing
restricted data access. Various views can be created for job roles depending on user
data access.
Second, a view might be used to provide a current deduplicated picture of data.
If we’re using an insert-only pattern, a view may be used to return a deduplicated
version of a table showing only the latest version of each record.
Third, views can be used to present common data access patterns. Suppose that
marketing analysts must frequently run a query that joins five tables. We could create
a view that joins together these five tables into a wide table. Analysts can then write
queries that filter and aggregate on top of this view.
Materialized views
We mentioned materialized views in our earlier discussion of query caching. A
potential disadvantage of (nonmaterialized) views is that they don’t do any precom‐
putation. In the example of a view that joins five tables, this join must run every
time a marketing analyst runs a query on this view, and the join could be extremely
expensive.
A materialized view does some or all of the view computation in advance. In our
example, a materialized view might save the five table join results every time a change
occurs in the source tables. Then, when a user references the view, they’re querying
from the prejoined data. A materialized view is a de facto transformation step, but the
database manages execution for convenience.
Materialized views may also serve a significant query optimization role depending
on the database, even for queries that don’t directly reference them. Many query
optimizers can identify queries that “look like” a materialized view. An analyst may
run a query that uses a filter that appears in a materialized view. The optimizer will
rewrite the query to select from the precomputed results.
Composable materialized views
In general, materialized views do not allow for composition—that is, a materialized
view cannot select from another materialized view. However, we’ve recently seen
the emergence of tools that support this capability. For example, Databricks has intro‐
duced the notion of live tables. Each table is updated as data arrives from sources.
Data flows down to subsequent tables asynchronously.
Federated queries
Federated queries are a database feature that allows an OLAP database to select from
an external data source, such as object storage or RDBMS. For example, let’s say
324
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

you need to combine data across object storage and various tables in MySQL and
PostgreSQL databases. Your data warehouse can issue a federated query to these
sources and return the combined results (Figure 8-19).
Figure 8-19. An OLAP database issues a federated query that gets data from object
storage, MySQL, and PostgreSQL and returns a query result with the combined data
As another example, Snowflake supports the notion of external tables defined on
S3 buckets. An external data location and a file format are defined when creating
the table, but data is not yet ingested into the table. When the external table is
queried, Snowflake reads from S3 and processes the data based on the parameters
set at the time of the table’s creation. We can even join S3 data to internal database
tables. This makes Snowflake and similar databases more compatible with a data lake
environment.
Some OLAP systems can convert federated queries into materialized views. This gives
us much of the performance of a native table without the need to manually ingest
data every time the external source changes. The materialized view gets updated
whenever the external data changes.
Data virtualization
Data virtualization is closely related to federated queries, but this typically entails a
data processing and query system that doesn’t store data internally. Right now, Trino
(e.g., Starburst) and Presto are examples par excellence. Any query/processing engine
that supports external tables can serve as a data virtualization engine. The most
significant considerations with data virtualization are supported external sources and
performance.
Transformations
|
325

