# DataOps

Paginas: 291-292

On the tokenization front, use common sense and assess data access scenarios. If
someone had the email of one of your customers, could they easily hash the email
and find the customer in your data? Thoughtlessly hashing data without salting and
other strategies may not protect privacy as well as you think.
DataOps
Reliable data pipelines are the cornerstone of the data engineering lifecycle. When
they fail, all downstream dependencies come to a screeching halt. Data warehouses
and data lakes aren’t replenished with fresh data, and data scientists and analysts can’t
effectively do their jobs; the business is forced to fly blind.
Ensuring that your data pipelines are properly monitored is a crucial step toward
reliability and effective incident response. If there’s one stage in the data engineering
lifecycle where monitoring is critical, it’s in the ingestion stage. Weak or nonexistent
monitoring means the pipelines may or may not be working. Referring back to
our earlier discussion on time, be sure to track the various aspects of time—event
creation, ingestion, process, and processing times. Your data pipelines should predict‐
ably process data in batches or streams. We’ve seen countless examples of reports
and ML models generated from stale data. In one extreme case, an ingestion pipeline
failure wasn’t detected for six months. (One might question the concrete utility of
the data in this instance, but that’s another matter.) This was very much avoidable
through proper monitoring.
What should you monitor? Uptime, latency, and data volumes processed are good
places to start. If an ingestion job fails, how will you respond? In general, build moni‐
toring into your pipelines from the beginning rather than waiting for deployment.
Monitoring is key, as is knowledge of the behavior of the upstream systems you
depend on and how they generate data. You should be aware of the number of events
generated per time interval you’re concerned with (events/minute, events/second, and
so on) and the average size of each event. Your data pipeline should handle both the
frequency and size of the events you’re ingesting.
This also applies to third-party services. In the case of these services, what you’ve
gained in terms of lean operational efficiencies (reduced headcount) is replaced by
systems you depend on being outside of your control. If you’re using a third-party
service (cloud, data integration service, etc.), how will you be alerted if there’s an
outage? What’s your response plan if a service you depend on suddenly goes offline?
Sadly, no universal response plan exists for third-party failures. If you can fail over to
other servers, preferably in another zone or region, definitely set this up.
If your data ingestion processes are built internally, do you have the proper testing
and deployment automation to ensure that the code functions in production? And if
the code is buggy or fails, can you roll it back to a working version?
266
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

2 Andy Petrella, “Datastrophes,” Medium, March 1, 2021, https://oreil.ly/h6FRW.
3 Danny Sullivan, “Dark Google: One Year Since Search Terms Went ‘Not Provided,’” MarTech, October 19,
2012, https://oreil.ly/Fp8ta.
Data-quality tests
We often refer to data as a silent killer. If quality, valid data is the foundation of
success in today’s businesses, using bad data to make decisions is much worse than
having no data. Bad data has caused untold damage to businesses; these data disasters
are sometimes called datastrophes.2
Data is entropic; it often changes in unexpected ways without warning. One of
the inherent differences between DevOps and DataOps is that we expect software
regressions only when we deploy changes, while data often presents regressions
independently because of events outside our control.
DevOps engineers are typically able to detect problems by using binary conditions.
Has the request failure rate breached a certain threshold? How about response
latency? In the data space, regressions often manifest as subtle statistical distortions.
Is a change in search-term statistics a result of customer behavior? Of a spike in bot
traffic that has escaped the net? Of a site test tool deployed in some other part of the
company?
Like system failures in DevOps, some data regressions are immediately visible. For
example, in the early 2000s, Google provided search terms to websites when users
arrived from search. In 2011, Google began withholding this information in some
cases to protect user privacy better. Analysts quickly saw “not provided” bubbling to
the tops of their reports.3
The truly dangerous data regressions are silent and can come from inside or outside a
business. Application developers may change the meaning of database fields without
adequately communicating with data teams. Changes to data from third-party sour‐
ces may go unnoticed. In the best-case scenario, reports break in obvious ways. Often
business metrics are distorted unbeknownst to decision makers.
Whenever possible, work with software engineers to fix data-quality issues at the
source. It’s surprising how many data-quality issues can be handled by respecting
basic best practices in software engineering, such as logs to capture the history of data
changes, checks (nulls, etc.), and exception handling (try, catch, etc.).
Traditional data testing tools are generally built on simple binary logic. Are nulls
appearing in a non-nullable field? Are new, unexpected items showing up in a
categorical column? Statistical data testing is a new realm, but one that is likely to
grow dramatically in the next five years.
Undercurrents
|
267

