# The Live Data Stack

Paginas: 410-410

Moving Beyond the Modern Data Stack,
Toward the Live Data Stack
We’ll be frank: the modern data stack (MDS) isn’t so modern. We applaud the MDS
for bringing a great selection of powerful data tools to the masses, lowering prices,
and empowering data analysts to take control of their data stack. The rise of ELT,
cloud data warehouses, and the abstraction of SaaS data pipelines certainly changed
the game for many companies, opening up new powers for BI, analytics, and data
science.
Having said that, the MDS is basically a repackaging of old data warehouse practices
using modern cloud and SaaS technologies; because the MDS is built around the
cloud data warehouse paradigm, it has some serious limitations when compared
to the potential of next-generation real-time data applications. From our point of
view, the world is moving beyond the use of data-warehouse-based internal-facing
analytics and data science, toward powering entire businesses and applications in real
time with next-generation real-time databases.
What’s driving this evolution? In many cases, analytics (BI and operational analytics)
will be replaced by automation. Presently, most dashboards and reports answer
questions concerning what and when. Ask yourself, “If I’m asking a what or when
question, what action do I take next?” If the action is repetitive, it is a candidate for
automation. Why look at a report to determine whether to take action when you can
instead automate the action based on events as they occur?
And it goes much further than this. Why does using a product like TikTok, Uber,
Google, or DoorDash feel like magic? While it seems to you like a click of a button to
watch a short video, order a ride or a meal, or find a search result, a lot is happening
under the hood. These products are examples of true real-time data applications,
delivering the actions you need at the click of a button while performing extremely
sophisticated data processing and ML behind the scenes with miniscule latency.
Presently, this level of sophistication is locked away behind custom-built technologies
at large technology companies, but this sophistication and power are becoming
democratized, similar to the way the MDS brought cloud-scale data warehouses and
pipelines to the masses. The data world will soon go “live.”
The Live Data Stack
This democratization of real-time technologies will lead us to the successor to the
MDS: the live data stack will soon be accessible and pervasive. The live data stack,
depicted in Figure 11-1, will fuse real-time analytics and ML into applications by
using streaming technologies, covering the full data lifecycle from application source
systems to data processing to ML, and back.
Moving Beyond the Modern Data Stack, Toward the Live Data Stack
|
385

