# Ingestion

Paginas: 64-67

• Is this a pure storage solution (object storage), or does it support complex query
•
patterns (i.e., a cloud data warehouse)?
• Is the storage system schema-agnostic (object storage)? Flexible schema (Cassan‐
•
dra)? Enforced schema (a cloud data warehouse)?
• How are you tracking master data, golden records data quality, and data lineage
•
for data governance? (We have more to say on these in “Data Management” on
page 50.)
• How are you handling regulatory compliance and data sovereignty? For example,
•
can you store your data in certain geographical locations but not others?
Understanding data access frequency
Not all data is accessed in the same way. Retrieval patterns will greatly vary based on
the data being stored and queried. This brings up the notion of the “temperatures” of
data. Data access frequency will determine the temperature of your data.
Data that is most frequently accessed is called hot data. Hot data is commonly
retrieved many times per day, perhaps even several times per second—for example,
in systems that serve user requests. This data should be stored for fast retrieval,
where “fast” is relative to the use case. Lukewarm data might be accessed every so
often—say, every week or month.
Cold data is seldom queried and is appropriate for storing in an archival system. Cold
data is often retained for compliance purposes or in case of a catastrophic failure in
another system. In the “old days,” cold data would be stored on tapes and shipped
to remote archival facilities. In cloud environments, vendors offer specialized storage
tiers with very cheap monthly storage costs but high prices for data retrieval.
Selecting a storage system
What type of storage solution should you use? This depends on your use cases,
data volumes, frequency of ingestion, format, and size of the data being ingested—
essentially, the key considerations listed in the preceding bulleted questions. There
is no one-size-fits-all universal storage recommendation. Every storage technology
has its trade-offs. Countless varieties of storage technologies exist, and it’s easy to be
overwhelmed when deciding the best option for your data architecture.
Chapter 6 covers storage best practices and approaches in greater detail, as well as the
crossover between storage and other lifecycle stages.
Ingestion
After you understand the data source, the characteristics of the source system you’re
using, and how data is stored, you need to gather the data. The next stage of the data
engineering lifecycle is data ingestion from source systems.
What Is the Data Engineering Lifecycle?
|
39

In our experience, source systems and ingestion represent the most significant bot‐
tlenecks of the data engineering lifecycle. The source systems are normally outside
your direct control and might randomly become unresponsive or provide data of
poor quality. Or, your data ingestion service might mysteriously stop working for
many reasons. As a result, data flow stops or delivers insufficient data for storage,
processing, and serving.
Unreliable source and ingestion systems have a ripple effect across the data engineer‐
ing lifecycle. But you’re in good shape, assuming you’ve answered the big questions
about source systems.
Key engineering considerations for the ingestion phase
When preparing to architect or build a system, here are some primary questions
about the ingestion stage:
• What are the use cases for the data I’m ingesting? Can I reuse this data rather
•
than create multiple versions of the same dataset?
• Are the systems generating and ingesting this data reliably, and is the data
•
available when I need it?
• What is the data destination after ingestion?
•
• How frequently will I need to access the data?
•
• In what volume will the data typically arrive?
•
• What format is the data in? Can my downstream storage and transformation
•
systems handle this format?
• Is the source data in good shape for immediate downstream use? If so, for how
•
long, and what may cause it to be unusable?
• If the data is from a streaming source, does it need to be transformed before
•
reaching its destination? Would an in-flight transformation be appropriate,
where the data is transformed within the stream itself?
These are just a sample of the factors you’ll need to think about with ingestion, and
we cover those questions and more in Chapter 7. Before we leave, let’s briefly turn
our attention to two major data ingestion concepts: batch versus streaming and push
versus pull.
Batch versus streaming
Virtually all data we deal with is inherently streaming. Data is nearly always produced
and updated continually at its source. Batch ingestion is simply a specialized and
convenient way of processing this stream in large chunks—for example, handling a
full day’s worth of data in a single batch.
40
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

Streaming ingestion allows us to provide data to downstream systems—whether
other applications, databases, or analytics systems—in a continuous, real-time fash‐
ion. Here, real-time (or near real-time) means that the data is available to a down‐
stream system a short time after it is produced (e.g., less than one second later). The
latency required to qualify as real-time varies by domain and requirements.
Batch data is ingested either on a predetermined time interval or as data reaches a
preset size threshold. Batch ingestion is a one-way door: once data is broken into
batches, the latency for downstream consumers is inherently constrained. Because of
limitations of legacy systems, batch was for a long time the default way to ingest data.
Batch processing remains an extremely popular way to ingest data for downstream
consumption, particularly in analytics and ML.
However, the separation of storage and compute in many systems and the ubiquity
of event-streaming and processing platforms make the continuous processing of data
streams much more accessible and increasingly popular. The choice largely depends
on the use case and expectations for data timeliness.
Key considerations for batch versus stream ingestion
Should you go streaming-first? Despite the attractiveness of a streaming-first
approach, there are many trade-offs to understand and think about. The following
are some questions to ask yourself when determining whether streaming ingestion is
an appropriate choice over batch ingestion:
• If I ingest the data in real time, can downstream storage systems handle the rate
•
of data flow?
• Do I need millisecond real-time data ingestion? Or would a micro-batch
•
approach work, accumulating and ingesting data, say, every minute?
• What are my use cases for streaming ingestion? What specific benefits do I
•
realize by implementing streaming? If I get data in real time, what actions can I
take on that data that would be an improvement upon batch?
• Will my streaming-first approach cost more in terms of time, money, mainte‐
•
nance, downtime, and opportunity cost than simply doing batch?
• Are my streaming pipeline and system reliable and redundant if infrastructure
•
fails?
• What tools are most appropriate for the use case? Should I use a managed service
•
(Amazon Kinesis, Google Cloud Pub/Sub, Google Cloud Dataflow) or stand up
my own instances of Kafka, Flink, Spark, Pulsar, etc.? If I do the latter, who will
manage it? What are the costs and trade-offs?
• If I’m deploying an ML model, what benefits do I have with online predictions
•
and possibly continuous training?
What Is the Data Engineering Lifecycle?
|
41

• Am I getting data from a live production instance? If so, what’s the impact of my
•
ingestion process on this source system?
As you can see, streaming-first might seem like a good idea, but it’s not always
straightforward; extra costs and complexities inherently occur. Many great ingestion
frameworks do handle both batch and micro-batch ingestion styles. We think batch
is an excellent approach for many common use cases, such as model training and
weekly reporting. Adopt true real-time streaming only after identifying a business use
case that justifies the trade-offs against using batch.
Push versus pull
In the push model of data ingestion, a source system writes data out to a target,
whether a database, object store, or filesystem. In the pull model, data is retrieved
from the source system. The line between the push and pull paradigms can be quite
blurry; data is often pushed and pulled as it works its way through the various stages
of a data pipeline.
Consider, for example, the extract, transform, load (ETL) process, commonly used in
batch-oriented ingestion workflows. ETL’s extract (E) part clarifies that we’re dealing
with a pull ingestion model. In traditional ETL, the ingestion system queries a current
source table snapshot on a fixed schedule. You’ll learn more about ETL and extract,
load, transform (ELT) throughout this book.
In another example, consider continuous CDC, which is achieved in a few ways.
One common method triggers a message every time a row is changed in the source
database. This message is pushed to a queue, where the ingestion system picks it up.
Another common CDC method uses binary logs, which record every commit to the
database. The database pushes to its logs. The ingestion system reads the logs but
doesn’t directly interact with the database otherwise. This adds little to no additional
load to the source database. Some versions of batch CDC use the pull pattern. For
example, in timestamp-based CDC, an ingestion system queries the source database
and pulls the rows that have changed since the previous update.
With streaming ingestion, data bypasses a backend database and is pushed directly
to an endpoint, typically with data buffered by an event-streaming platform. This
pattern is useful with fleets of IoT sensors emitting sensor data. Rather than relying
on a database to maintain the current state, we simply think of each recorded reading
as an event. This pattern is also growing in popularity in software applications as
it simplifies real-time processing, allows app developers to tailor their messages for
downstream analytics, and greatly simplifies the lives of data engineers.
We discuss ingestion best practices and techniques in depth in Chapter 7. Next, let’s
turn to the transformation stage of the data engineering lifecycle.
42
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

