# Transformation

Paginas: 68-68

Transformation
After you’ve ingested and stored data, you need to do something with it. The next
stage of the data engineering lifecycle is transformation, meaning data needs to be
changed from its original form into something useful for downstream use cases.
Without proper transformations, data will sit inert, and not be in a useful form for
reports, analysis, or ML. Typically, the transformation stage is where data begins to
create value for downstream user consumption.
Immediately after ingestion, basic transformations map data into correct types
(changing ingested string data into numeric and date types, for example), putting
records into standard formats, and removing bad ones. Later stages of transformation
may transform the data schema and apply normalization. Downstream, we can apply
large-scale aggregation for reporting or featurize data for ML processes.
Key considerations for the transformation phase
When considering data transformations within the data engineering lifecycle, it helps
to consider the following:
• What’s the cost and return on investment (ROI) of the transformation? What is
•
the associated business value?
• Is the transformation as simple and self-isolated as possible?
•
• What business rules do the transformations support?
•
You can transform data in batch or while streaming in flight. As mentioned in
“Ingestion” on page 39, virtually all data starts life as a continuous stream; batch
is just a specialized way of processing a data stream. Batch transformations are over‐
whelmingly popular, but given the growing popularity of stream-processing solutions
and the general increase in the amount of streaming data, we expect the popularity
of streaming transformations to continue growing, perhaps entirely replacing batch
processing in certain domains soon.
Logically, we treat transformation as a standalone area of the data engineering life‐
cycle, but the realities of the lifecycle can be much more complicated in practice.
Transformation is often entangled in other phases of the lifecycle. Typically, data is
transformed in source systems or in flight during ingestion. For example, a source
system may add an event timestamp to a record before forwarding it to an ingestion
process. Or a record within a streaming pipeline may be “enriched” with additional
fields and calculations before it’s sent to a data warehouse. Transformations are
ubiquitous in various parts of the lifecycle. Data preparation, data wrangling, and
cleaning—these transformative tasks add value for end consumers of data.
Business logic is a major driver of data transformation, often in data modeling. Data
translates business logic into reusable elements (e.g., a sale means “somebody bought
What Is the Data Engineering Lifecycle?
|
43

