# Always Back Up Your Data

Paginas: 397-397

We have more to say about active security in “Technology” on page 374.
The Principle of Least Privilege
The principle of least privilege means that a person or system should be given only the
privileges and data they need to complete the task at hand and nothing more. Often,
we see an antipattern in the cloud: a regular user is given administrative access to
everything, when that person may need just a handful of IAM roles to do their work.
Giving someone carte blanche administrative access is a huge mistake and should
never happen under the principle of least privilege.
Instead, provide the user (or group they belong to) the IAM roles they need when
they need them. When these roles are no longer needed, take them away. The same
rule applies to service accounts. Treat humans and machines the same way: give them
only the privileges and data they need to do their jobs, and only for the timespan
when needed.
Of course, the principle of least privilege is also critical to privacy. Your users and
customers expect that people will look at their sensitive data only when necessary.
Make sure that this is the case. Implement column, row, and cell-level access controls
around sensitive data; consider masking PII and other sensitive data and create views
that contain only the information the viewer needs to access. Some data must be
retained but should be accessed only in an emergency. Put this data behind a broken
glass process: users can access it only after going through an emergency approval
process to fix a problem, query critical historical information, etc. Access is revoked
immediately once the work is done.
Shared Responsibility in the Cloud
Security is a shared responsibility in the cloud. The cloud vendor is responsible
for ensuring the physical security of its data center and hardware. At the same
time, you are responsible for the security of the applications and systems you build
and maintain in the cloud. Most cloud security breaches continue to be caused by
end users, not the cloud. Breaches occur because of unintended misconfigurations,
mistakes, oversights, and sloppiness.
Always Back Up Your Data
Data disappears. Sometimes it’s a dead hard drive or server; in other cases, someone
might accidentally delete a database or an object storage bucket. A bad actor can
also lock away data. Ransomware attacks are widespread these days. Some insurance
companies are reducing payouts in the event of an attack, leaving you on the hook
both to recover your data and pay the bad actor who’s holding it hostage. You
need to back up your data regularly, both for disaster recovery and continuity of
372
|
Chapter 10: Security and Privacy

