# Generation: Source Systems

Paginas: 60-62

Figure 2-2. The data engineering lifecycle is a subset of the full data lifecycle
Generation: Source Systems
A source system is the origin of the data used in the data engineering lifecycle. For
example, a source system could be an IoT device, an application message queue, or
a transactional database. A data engineer consumes data from a source system but
doesn’t typically own or control the source system itself. The data engineer needs to
have a working understanding of the way source systems work, the way they generate
data, the frequency and velocity of the data, and the variety of data they generate.
Engineers also need to keep an open line of communication with source system
owners on changes that could break pipelines and analytics. Application code might
change the structure of data in a field, or the application team might even choose to
migrate the backend to an entirely new database technology.
A major challenge in data engineering is the dizzying array of data source systems
engineers must work with and understand. As an illustration, let’s look at two com‐
mon source systems, one very traditional (an application database) and the other a
more recent example (IoT swarms).
Figure 2-3 illustrates a traditional source system with several application servers
supported by a database. This source system pattern became popular in the 1980s
with the explosive success of relational database management systems (RDBMSs).
The application + database pattern remains popular today with various modern evo‐
lutions of software development practices. For example, applications often consist of
many small service/database pairs with microservices rather than a single monolith.
Figure 2-3. Source system example: an application database
What Is the Data Engineering Lifecycle?
|
35

Let’s look at another example of a source system. Figure 2-4 illustrates an IoT swarm:
a fleet of devices (circles) sends data messages (rectangles) to a central collection
system. This IoT source system is increasingly common as IoT devices such as
sensors, smart devices, and much more increase in the wild.
Figure 2-4. Source system example: an IoT swarm and message queue
Evaluating source systems: Key engineering considerations
There are many things to consider when assessing source systems, including how the
system handles ingestion, state, and data generation. The following is a starting set of
evaluation questions of source systems that data engineers must consider:
• What are the essential characteristics of the data source? Is it an application? A
•
swarm of IoT devices?
• How is data persisted in the source system? Is data persisted long term, or is it
•
temporary and quickly deleted?
• At what rate is data generated? How many events per second? How many giga‐
•
bytes per hour?
• What level of consistency can data engineers expect from the output data? If
•
you’re running data-quality checks against the output data, how often do data
inconsistencies occur—nulls where they aren’t expected, lousy formatting, etc.?
• How often do errors occur?
•
• Will the data contain duplicates?
•
• Will some data values arrive late, possibly much later than other messages pro‐
•
duced simultaneously?
• What is the schema of the ingested data? Will data engineers need to join across
•
several tables or even several systems to get a complete picture of the data?
36
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

• If schema changes (say, a new column is added), how is this dealt with and
•
communicated to downstream stakeholders?
• How frequently should data be pulled from the source system?
•
• For stateful systems (e.g., a database tracking customer account information), is
•
data provided as periodic snapshots or update events from change data capture
(CDC)? What’s the logic for how changes are performed, and how are these
tracked in the source database?
• Who/what is the data provider that will transmit the data for downstream
•
consumption?
• Will reading from a data source impact its performance?
•
• Does the source system have upstream data dependencies? What are the charac‐
•
teristics of these upstream systems?
• Are data-quality checks in place to check for late or missing data?
•
Sources produce data consumed by downstream systems, including human-
generated spreadsheets, IoT sensors, and web and mobile applications. Each source
has its unique volume and cadence of data generation. A data engineer should know
how the source generates data, including relevant quirks or nuances. Data engineers
also need to understand the limits of the source systems they interact with. For
example, will analytical queries against a source application database cause resource
contention and performance issues?
One of the most challenging nuances of source data is the schema. The schema
defines the hierarchical organization of data. Logically, we can think of data at the
level of a whole source system, drilling down into individual tables, all the way to
the structure of respective fields. The schema of data shipped from source systems is
handled in various ways. Two popular options are schemaless and fixed schema.
Schemaless doesn’t mean the absence of schema. Rather, it means that the application
defines the schema as data is written, whether to a message queue, a flat file, a blob, or
a document database such as MongoDB. A more traditional model built on relational
database storage uses a fixed schema enforced in the database, to which application
writes must conform.
Either of these models presents challenges for data engineers. Schemas change over
time; in fact, schema evolution is encouraged in the Agile approach to software
development. A key part of the data engineer’s job is taking raw data input in the
source system schema and transforming this into valuable output for analytics. This
job becomes more challenging as the source schema evolves.
We dive into source systems in greater detail in Chapter 5; we also cover schemas and
data modeling in Chapters 6 and 8, respectively.
What Is the Data Engineering Lifecycle?
|
37

