# Total Cost of Ownership

Paginas: 143-143

tools will integrate with common APIs and services, such as CRMs, accounting
software, and more.
Sometimes standards are in place for interoperability. Almost all databases allow
connections via Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) or Open Database Connectivity
(ODBC), meaning that you can easily connect to a database by using these standards.
In other cases, interoperability occurs in the absence of standards. Representational
state transfer (REST) is not truly a standard for APIs; every REST API has its quirks.
In these cases, it’s up to the vendor or open source software (OSS) project to ensure
smooth integration with other technologies and systems.
Always be aware of how simple it will be to connect your various technologies across
the data engineering lifecycle. As mentioned in other chapters, we suggest designing
for modularity and giving yourself the ability to easily swap out technologies as new
practices and alternatives become available.
Cost Optimization and Business Value
In a perfect world, you’d get to experiment with all the latest, coolest technologies
without considering cost, time investment, or value added to the business. In reality,
budgets and time are finite, and the cost is a major constraint for choosing the
right data architectures and technologies. Your organization expects a positive ROI
from your data projects, so you must understand the basic costs you can control.
Technology is a major cost driver, so your technology choices and management
strategies will significantly impact your budget. We look at costs through three main
lenses: total cost of ownership, opportunity cost, and FinOps.
Total Cost of Ownership
Total cost of ownership (TCO) is the total estimated cost of an initiative, including
the direct and indirect costs of products and services utilized. Direct costs can be
directly attributed to an initiative. Examples are the salaries of a team working on
the initiative or the AWS bill for all services consumed. Indirect costs, also known
as overhead, are independent of the initiative and must be paid regardless of where
they’re attributed.
Apart from direct and indirect costs, how something is purchased impacts the way
costs are accounted for. Expenses fall into two big groups: capital expenses and
operational expenses.
Capital expenses, also known as capex, require an up-front investment. Payment is
required today. Before the cloud existed, companies would typically purchase hard‐
ware and software up front through large acquisition contracts. In addition, signifi‐
cant investments were required to host hardware in server rooms, data centers, and
colocation facilities. These up-front investments—commonly hundreds of thousands
118
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

