# Change Data Capture

Paginas: 184-184

OLTP and analytics
Often, small companies run analytics directly on an OLTP. This pattern works in the
short term but is ultimately not scalable. At some point, running analytical queries on
OLTP runs into performance issues due to structural limitations of OLTP or resource
contention with competing transactional workloads. Data engineers must understand
the inner workings of OLTP and application backends to set up appropriate integra‐
tions with analytics systems without degrading production application performance.
As companies offer more analytics capabilities in SaaS applications, the need for
hybrid capabilities—quick updates with combined analytics capabilities—has created
new challenges for data engineers. We’ll use the term data application to refer to
applications that hybridize transactional and analytics workloads.
Online Analytical Processing System
In contrast to an OLTP system, an online analytical processing (OLAP) system is
built to run large analytics queries and is typically inefficient at handling lookups
of individual records. For example, modern column databases are optimized to scan
large volumes of data, dispensing with indexes to improve scalability and scan perfor‐
mance. Any query typically involves scanning a minimal data block, often 100 MB or
more in size. Trying to look up thousands of individual items per second in such a
system will bring it to its knees unless it is combined with a caching layer designed
for this use case.
Note that we’re using the term OLAP to refer to any database system that supports
high-scale interactive analytics queries; we are not limiting ourselves to systems that
support OLAP cubes (multidimensional arrays of data). The online part of OLAP
implies that the system constantly listens for incoming queries, making OLAP sys‐
tems suitable for interactive analytics.
Although this chapter covers source systems, OLAPs are typically storage and query
systems for analytics. Why are we talking about them in our chapter on source
systems? In practical use cases, engineers often need to read data from an OLAP
system. For example, a data warehouse might serve data used to train an ML model.
Or, an OLAP system might serve a reverse ETL workflow, where derived data in an
analytics system is sent back to a source system, such as a CRM, SaaS platform, or
transactional application.
Change Data Capture
Change data capture (CDC) is a method for extracting each change event (insert,
update, delete) that occurs in a database. CDC is frequently leveraged to replicate
between databases in near real time or create an event stream for downstream
processing.
Source Systems: Main Ideas
|
159

