# Operational Analytics

Paginas: 371-372

frequency. If streaming applications exist for the data, it should be ingested as a
stream even if some downstream processing and serving steps are handled in batches.
Of course, data engineers must address various backend technical considerations in
serving business analytics. Some BI tools store data in an internal storage layer. Other
tools run queries on your data lake or data warehouse. This is advantageous because
you can take full advantage of your OLAP database’s power. As we’ve discussed in
earlier chapters, the downside is cost, access control, and latency.
Operational Analytics
If business analytics is about using data to discover actionable insights, then opera‐
tional analytics uses data to take immediate action:
Operational analytics versus business analytics =
immediate action versus actionable insights
The big difference between operational and business analytics is time. Data used in
business analytics takes a longer view of the question under consideration. Up-to-the-
second updates are nice to know but won’t materially impact the quality or outcome.
Operational analytics is quite the opposite, as real-time updates can be impactful in
addressing a problem when it occurs.
An example of operational analytics is real-time application monitoring. Many soft‐
ware engineering teams want to know how their application is performing; if issues
arise, they want to be notified immediately. The engineering team might have a
dashboard (see, e.g., Figure 9-2) that shows the key metrics such as requests per sec‐
ond, database I/O, or whatever metrics are important. Certain conditions can trigger
scaling events, adding more capacity if servers are overloaded. If certain thresholds
are breached, the monitoring system might also send alerts via text message, group
chat, and email.
Business and Operational Analytics
The line between business and operational analytics has begun to blur. As streaming
and low-latency data become more pervasive, it is only natural to apply operational
approaches to business analytics problems; in addition to monitoring website per‐
formance on Black Friday, an online retailer could also analyze and present sales,
revenue, and the impact of advertising campaigns in real time.
The data architectures will change to fit into a world where you can have both your
red hot and warm data in one place. The central question you should always ask
yourself, and your stakeholders, is this: if you have streaming data, what are you
346
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

going to do with it? What action should you take? Correct action creates impact and
value. Real-time data without action is an unrelenting distraction.
In the long term, we predict that streaming will supplant batch. Data products over
the next 10 years will likely be streaming-first, with the ability to seamlessly blend
historical data. After real-time collection, data can still be consumed and processed in
batches as required.
Figure 9-2. An operational analytics dashboard showing some key metrics from Google
Compute Engine
Let’s return once again to our running shorts example. Using analytics to discover
bad fabric in the supply chain was a huge success; business leaders and data engineers
want to find more opportunities to utilize data to improve product quality. The data
engineers suggest deploying real-time analytics at the factory. The plant already uses
Analytics
|
347

