# Distributed Systems, Scalability, and Designing for Failure

Paginas: 113-114

and accounting must keep track of invoices to ensure that payment is received. Sales
and accounting own their respective domains.
Figure 3-3. Two domains (sales and accounting) share a common service (invoices), and
sales and accounting own their respective domains
When thinking about what constitutes a domain, focus on what the domain repre‐
sents in the real world and work backward. In the preceding example, the sales
domain should represent what happens with the sales function in your company.
When architecting the sales domain, avoid cookie-cutter copying and pasting from
what other companies do. Your company’s sales function likely has unique aspects
that require specific services to make it work the way your sales team expects.
Identify what should go in the domain. When determining what the domain should
encompass and what services to include, the best advice is to simply go and talk with
users and stakeholders, listen to what they’re saying, and build the services that will
help them do their job. Avoid the classic trap of architecting in a vacuum.
Distributed Systems, Scalability, and Designing for Failure
The discussion in this section is related to our second and third principles of data
engineering architecture discussed previously: plan for failure and architect for scala‐
bility. As data engineers, we’re interested in four closely related characteristics of data
systems (availability and reliability were mentioned previously, but we reiterate them
here for completeness):
Scalability
Allows us to increase the capacity of a system to improve performance and
handle the demand. For example, we might want to scale a system to handle a
high rate of queries or process a huge data set.
Elasticity
The ability of a scalable system to scale dynamically; a highly elastic system can
automatically scale up and down based on the current workload. Scaling up is
critical as demand increases, while scaling down saves money in a cloud environ‐
ment. Modern systems sometimes scale to zero, meaning they can automatically
shut down when idle.
88
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

Availability
The percentage of time an IT service or component is in an operable state.
Reliability
The system’s probability of meeting defined standards in performing its intended
function during a specified interval.
See PagerDuty’s “Why Are Availability and Reliability Crucial?”
web page for definitions and background on availability and relia‐
bility.
How are these characteristics related? If a system fails to meet performance
requirements during a specified interval, it may become unresponsive. Thus low
reliability can lead to low availability. On the other hand, dynamic scaling helps
ensure adequate performance without manual intervention from engineers—elastic‐
ity improves reliability.
Scalability can be realized in a variety of ways. For your services and domains, does
a single machine handle everything? A single machine can be scaled vertically; you
can increase resources (CPU, disk, memory, I/O). But there are hard limits to possible
resources on a single machine. Also, what happens if this machine dies? Given
enough time, some components will eventually fail. What’s your plan for backup and
failover? Single machines generally can’t offer high availability and reliability.
We utilize a distributed system to realize higher overall scaling capacity and increased
availability and reliability. Horizontal scaling allows you to add more machines to
satisfy load and resource requirements (Figure 3-4). Common horizontally scaled
systems have a leader node that acts as the main point of contact for the instantiation,
progress, and completion of workloads. When a workload is started, the leader node
distributes tasks to the worker nodes within its system, completing the tasks and
returning the results to the leader node. Typical modern distributed architectures also
build in redundancy. Data is replicated so that if a machine dies, the other machines
can pick up where the missing server left off; the cluster may add more machines to
restore capacity.
Distributed systems are widespread in the various data technologies you’ll use across
your architecture. Almost every cloud data warehouse object storage system you
use has some notion of distribution under the hood. Management details of the
distributed system are typically abstracted away, allowing you to focus on high-level
architecture instead of low-level plumbing. However, we highly recommend that
you learn more about distributed systems because these details can be extremely
helpful in understanding and improving the performance of your pipelines; Martin
Kleppmann’s Designing Data-Intensive Applications (O’Reilly) is an excellent resource.
Major Architecture Concepts
|
89

