# Undercurrents

Paginas: 288-288

Simply improving communication is a significant first step. Often software engineers
have already identified potentially valuable data for downstream consumption. Open‐
ing a communication channel encourages software engineers to get data into shape
for consumers and communicate about data changes to prevent pipeline regressions.
Beyond communication, data engineers can highlight the contributions of software
engineers to team members, executives, and especially product managers. Involving
product managers in the outcome and treating downstream data processed as part of
a product encourages them to allocate scarce software development to collaboration
with data engineers. Ideally, software engineers can work partially as extensions of the
data engineering team; this allows them to collaborate on various projects, such as
creating an event-driven architecture to enable real-time analytics.
Downstream Stakeholders
Who is the ultimate customer for data ingestion? Data engineers focus on data
practitioners and technology leaders such as data scientists, analysts, and chief tech‐
nical officers. They would do well also to remember their broader circle of business
stakeholders such as marketing directors, vice presidents over the supply chain, and
CEOs.
Too often, we see data engineers pursuing sophisticated projects (e.g., real-time
streaming buses or complex data systems) while digital marketing managers next
door are left downloading Google Ads reports manually. View data engineering as a
business, and recognize who your customers are. Often basic automation of ingestion
processes has significant value, especially for departments like marketing that control
massive budgets and sit at the heart of revenue for the business. Basic ingestion work
may seem tedious, but delivering value to these core parts of the company will open
up more budget and more exciting long-term data engineering opportunities.
Data engineers can also invite more executive participation in this collaborative
process. For a good reason, data-driven culture is quite fashionable in business
leadership circles. Still, it is up to data engineers and other data practitioners to
provide executives with guidance on the best structure for a data-driven business.
This means communicating the value of lowering barriers between data producers
and data engineers while supporting executives in breaking down silos and setting up
incentives to lead to a more unified data-driven culture.
Once again, communication is the watchword. Honest communication early and often
with stakeholders will go a long way to ensure that your data ingestion adds value.
Undercurrents
Virtually all the undercurrents touch the ingestion phase, but we’ll emphasize the
most salient ones here.
Undercurrents
|
263

