# Interoperability

Paginas: 142-142

Take an inventory of your team’s skills. Do people lean toward low-code tools, or
do they favor code-first approaches? Are people strong in certain languages like
Java, Python, or Go? Technologies are available to cater to every preference on the
low-code to code-heavy spectrum. Again, we suggest sticking with technologies and
workflows with which the team is familiar. We’ve seen data teams invest a lot of time
in learning the shiny new data technology, language, or tool, only to never use it in
production. Learning new technologies, languages, and tools is a considerable time
investment, so make these investments wisely.
Speed to Market
In technology, speed to market wins. This means choosing the right technologies that
help you deliver features and data faster while maintaining high-quality standards
and security. It also means working in a tight feedback loop of launching, learning,
iterating, and making improvements.
Perfect is the enemy of good. Some data teams will deliberate on technology choices
for months or years without reaching any decisions. Slow decisions and output are
the kiss of death to data teams. We’ve seen more than a few data teams dissolve for
moving too slow and failing to deliver the value they were hired to produce.
Deliver value early and often. As we’ve mentioned, use what works. Your team
members will likely get better leverage with tools they already know. Avoid undiffer‐
entiated heavy lifting that engages your team in unnecessarily complex work that
adds little to no value. Choose tools that help you move quickly, reliably, safely, and
securely.
Interoperability
Rarely will you use only one technology or system. When choosing a technology or
system, you’ll need to ensure that it interacts and operates with other technologies.
Interoperability describes how various technologies or systems connect, exchange
information, and interact.
Let’s say you’re evaluating two technologies, A and B. How easily does technology
A integrate with technology B when thinking about interoperability? This is often
a spectrum of difficulty, ranging from seamless to time-intensive. Is seamless integra‐
tion already baked into each product, making setup a breeze? Or do you need to do a
lot of manual configuration to integrate these technologies?
Often, vendors and open source projects will target specific platforms and systems
to interoperate. Most data ingestion and visualization tools have built-in integrations
with popular data warehouses and data lakes. Furthermore, popular data-ingestion
Speed to Market
|
117

