# Reverse ETL

Paginas: 383-384

What happens when the dataset size exceeds the local machine’s available memory?
This inevitably happens given the limited memory of laptops and workstations: it
stops a data science project dead in its tracks. It’s time to consider more scalable
options. First, move to a cloud-based notebook where the underlying storage and
memory for the notebook can be flexibly scaled. Upon outgrowing this option, look
at distributed execution systems; popular Python-based options include Dask, Ray,
and Spark. If a full-fledged cloud-managed offering seems appealing, consider setting
up a data science workflow using Amazon SageMaker, Google Cloud Vertex AI, or
Microsoft Azure Machine Learning. Finally, open source end-to-end ML workflow
options such as Kubeflow and MLflow make it easy to scale ML workloads in Kuber‐
netes and Spark, respectively. The point is to get data scientists off their laptops and
take advantage of the cloud’s power and scalability.
Data engineers and ML engineers play a key role in facilitating the move to scalable
cloud infrastructure. The exact division of labor depends a great deal on the details of
your organization. They should take the lead in setting up cloud infrastructure, over‐
seeing the management of environments, and training data scientists on cloud-based
tools.
Cloud environments require significant operational work, such as managing versions
and updates, controlling access, and maintaining SLAs. As with other operational
work, a significant payoff can result when “data science ops” are done well.
Notebooks may even become a part of production data science; notebooks are widely
deployed at Netflix. This is an interesting approach with advantages and trade-offs.
Productionized notebooks allow data scientists to get their work into production
much faster, but they are also inherently a substandard form of production. The
alternative is to have ML and data engineers convert notebooks for production use,
placing a significant burden on these teams. A hybrid of these approaches may be
ideal, with notebooks used for “light” production and a full productionization process
for high-value projects.
Reverse ETL
Today, reverse ETL is a buzzword that describes serving data by loading it from an
OLAP database back into a source system. That said, any data engineer who’s worked
in the field for more than a few years has probably done some variation of reverse
ETL. Reverse ETL grew in popularity in the late 2010s/early 2020s and is increasingly
recognized as a formal data engineering responsibility.
A data engineer might pull customers and order data from a CRM and store it in
a data warehouse. This data is used to train a lead scoring model, whose results are
returned to the data warehouse. Your company’s sales team wants access to these
scored leads to try to generate more sales. You have a few options to get the results of
358
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

this lead scoring model into the hands of the sales team. You can put the results in a
dashboard for them to view. Or you might email the results to them as an Excel file.
The challenge with these approaches is that they are not connected to the CRM,
where a salesperson does their work. Why not just put the scored leads back into the
CRM? As we mentioned, successful data products reduce friction with the end user.
In this case, the end user is the sales team.
Using reverse ETL and loading the scored leads back into the CRM is the easiest
and best approach for this data product. Reverse ETL takes processed data from the
output side of the data engineering lifecycle and feeds it back into source systems
(Figure 9-5).
Instead of reverse ETL, we, the authors, half-jokingly call it bidir‐
ectional load and transform (BLT). The term reverse ETL doesn’t
quite accurately describe what’s happening in this process. Regard‐
less, the term has stuck in the popular imagination and press, so
we’ll use it throughout the book. More broadly, whether the term
reverse ETL sticks around is anyone’s guess, but the practice of
loading data from OLAP systems back into source systems will
remain important.
How do you begin serving data with reverse ETL? While you can roll your reverse
ETL solution, many off-the-shelf reverse ETL options are available. We suggest using
open source, or a commercial managed service. That said, the reverse ETL space is
changing extremely quickly. No clear winners have emerged, and many reverse ETL
products will be absorbed by major clouds or other data product vendors. Choose
carefully.
Figure 9-5. Reverse ETL
Reverse ETL
|
359

