# Data Engineers and Other Technical Roles

Paginas: 49-52

maintaining data pipelines and data warehouses for BI dashboards, reports, business
processes, data science, and ML models.
Figure 1-11. Internal-facing data engineer
External-facing and internal-facing responsibilities are often blended. In practice,
internal-facing data is usually a prerequisite to external-facing data. The data engi‐
neer has two sets of users with very different requirements for query concurrency,
security, and more.
Data Engineers and Other Technical Roles
In practice, the data engineering lifecycle cuts across many domains of responsibility.
Data engineers sit at the nexus of various roles, directly or through managers, inter‐
acting with many organizational units.
Let’s look at whom a data engineer may impact. In this section, we’ll discuss technical
roles connected to data engineering (Figure 1-12).
Figure 1-12. Key technical stakeholders of data engineering
The data engineer is a hub between data producers, such as software engineers, data
architects, and DevOps or site-reliability engineers (SREs), and data consumers, such
as data analysts, data scientists, and ML engineers. In addition, data engineers will
interact with those in operational roles, such as DevOps engineers.
Given the pace at which new data roles come into vogue (analytics and ML engineers
come to mind), this is by no means an exhaustive list.
24
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

11 Paramita (Guha) Ghosh, “Data Architect vs. Data Engineer,” Dataversity, November 12, 2021,
https://oreil.ly/TlyZY.
Upstream stakeholders
To be successful as a data engineer, you need to understand the data architecture
you’re using or designing and the source systems producing the data you’ll need.
Next, we discuss a few familiar upstream stakeholders: data architects, software
engineers, and DevOps engineers.
Data architects. Data architects function at a level of abstraction one step removed
from data engineers. Data architects design the blueprint for organizational data
management, mapping out processes and overall data architecture and systems.11
They also serve as a bridge between an organization’s technical and nontechnical
sides. Successful data architects generally have “battle scars” from extensive engi‐
neering experience, allowing them to guide and assist engineers while successfully
communicating engineering challenges to nontechnical business stakeholders.
Data architects implement policies for managing data across silos and business units,
steer global strategies such as data management and data governance, and guide
significant initiatives. Data architects often play a central role in cloud migrations and
greenfield cloud design.
The advent of the cloud has shifted the boundary between data architecture and
data engineering. Cloud data architectures are much more fluid than on-premises
systems, so architecture decisions that traditionally involved extensive study, long
lead times, purchase contracts, and hardware installation are now often made during
the implementation process, just one step in a larger strategy. Nevertheless, data
architects will remain influential visionaries in enterprises, working hand in hand
with data engineers to determine the big picture of architecture practices and data
strategies.
Depending on the company’s data maturity and size, a data engineer may overlap
with or assume the responsibilities of a data architect. Therefore, a data engineer
should have a good understanding of architecture best practices and approaches.
Note that we have placed data architects in the upstream stakeholders section. Data
architects often help design application data layers that are source systems for data
engineers. Architects may also interact with data engineers at various other stages of
the data engineering lifecycle. We cover “good” data architecture in Chapter 3.
Software engineers. Software engineers build the software and systems that run a
business; they are largely responsible for generating the internal data that data engi‐
neers will consume and process. The systems built by software engineers typically
generate application event data and logs, which are significant assets in their own
Data Engineers Inside an Organization
|
25

12 A variety of references exist for this notion. Although this cliche is widely known, a healthy debate has arisen
around its validity in different practical settings. For more details, see Leigh Dodds, “Do Data Scientists Spend
80% of Their Time Cleaning Data? Turns Out, No?” Lost Boy blog, January 31, 2020, https://oreil.ly/szFww;
and Alex Woodie, “Data Prep Still Dominates Data Scientists’ Time, Survey Finds,” Datanami, July 6, 2020,
https://oreil.ly/jDVWF.
right. This internal data contrasts with external data pulled from SaaS platforms or
partner businesses. In well-run technical organizations, software engineers and data
engineers coordinate from the inception of a new project to design application data
for consumption by analytics and ML applications.
A data engineer should work together with software engineers to understand the
applications that generate data, the volume, frequency, and format of the generated
data, and anything else that will impact the data engineering lifecycle, such as data
security and regulatory compliance. For example, this might mean setting upstream
expectations on what the data software engineers need to do their jobs. Data engi‐
neers must work closely with the software engineers.
DevOps engineers and site-reliability engineers. DevOps and SREs often produce data
through operational monitoring. We classify them as upstream of data engineers, but
they may also be downstream, consuming data through dashboards or interacting
with data engineers directly in coordinating operations of data systems.
Downstream stakeholders
Data engineering exists to serve downstream data consumers and use cases. This
section discusses how data engineers interact with various downstream roles. We’ll
also introduce a few service models, including centralized data engineering teams and
cross-functional teams.
Data scientists. Data scientists build forward-looking models to make predictions and
recommendations. These models are then evaluated on live data to provide value
in various ways. For example, model scoring might determine automated actions in
response to real-time conditions, recommend products to customers based on the
browsing history in their current session, or make live economic predictions used by
traders.
According to common industry folklore, data scientists spend 70% to 80% of their
time collecting, cleaning, and preparing data.12 In our experience, these numbers
often reflect immature data science and data engineering practices. In particular,
many popular data science frameworks can become bottlenecks if they are not
scaled up appropriately. Data scientists who work exclusively on a single worksta‐
tion force themselves to downsample data, making data preparation significantly
more complicated and potentially compromising the quality of the models they
26
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

produce. Furthermore, locally developed code and environments are often difficult
to deploy in production, and a lack of automation significantly hampers data science
workflows. If data engineers do their job and collaborate successfully, data scientists
shouldn’t spend their time collecting, cleaning, and preparing data after initial explor‐
atory work. Data engineers should automate this work as much as possible.
The need for production-ready data science is a significant driver behind the emer‐
gence of the data engineering profession. Data engineers should help data scientists to
enable a path to production. In fact, we (the authors) moved from data science to data
engineering after recognizing this fundamental need. Data engineers work to provide
the data automation and scale that make data science more efficient.
Data analysts. Data analysts (or business analysts) seek to understand business per‐
formance and trends. Whereas data scientists are forward-looking, a data analyst
typically focuses on the past or present. Data analysts usually run SQL queries in a
data warehouse or a data lake. They may also utilize spreadsheets for computation
and analysis and various BI tools such as Microsoft Power BI, Looker, or Tableau.
Data analysts are domain experts in the data they work with frequently and become
intimately familiar with data definitions, characteristics, and quality problems. A
data analyst’s typical downstream customers are business users, management, and
executives.
Data engineers work with data analysts to build pipelines for new data sources
required by the business. Data analysts’ subject-matter expertise is invaluable in
improving data quality, and they frequently collaborate with data engineers in this
capacity.
Machine learning engineers and AI researchers. Machine learning engineers (ML engi‐
neers) overlap with data engineers and data scientists. ML engineers develop
advanced ML techniques, train models, and design and maintain the infrastructure
running ML processes in a scaled production environment. ML engineers often have
advanced working knowledge of ML and deep learning techniques and frameworks
such as PyTorch or TensorFlow.
ML engineers also understand the hardware, services, and systems required to run
these frameworks, both for model training and model deployment at a production
scale. It’s common for ML flows to run in a cloud environment where ML engineers
can spin up and scale infrastructure resources on demand or rely on managed
services.
As we’ve mentioned, the boundaries between ML engineering, data engineering, and
data science are blurry. Data engineers may have some operational responsibilities
over ML systems, and data scientists may work closely with ML engineering in
designing advanced ML processes.
Data Engineers Inside an Organization
|
27

