# Undercurrents

Paginas: 385-385

We do have a few words of warning regarding reverse ETL. Reverse ETL inherently
creates feedback loops. For example, imagine that we download Google Ads data,
use a model to compute new bids, load the bids back into Google Ads, and start the
process again. Suppose that because of an error in your bid model, the bids trend
ever higher, and your ads get more and more clicks. You can quickly waste massive
amounts of money! Be careful, and build in monitoring and guardrails.
Whom You’ll Work With
As we’ve discussed, in the serving stage, a data engineer will interface with a lot of
stakeholders. These include (but aren’t limited to) the following:
• Data analysts
•
• Data scientists
•
• MLOps/ML engineers
•
• The business—nondata or nontechnical stakeholders, managers, and executives
•
As a reminder, the data engineer operates in a support role for these stakeholders
and is not necessarily responsible for the end uses of data. For example, a data
engineer supplies the data for a report that analysts interpret, but the data engineer
isn’t responsible for these interpretations. Instead, the data engineer is responsible for
producing the highest-quality data products possible.
A data engineer should be aware of feedback loops between the data engineering
lifecycle and the broader use of data once it’s in the hands of stakeholders. Data is
rarely static, and the outside world will influence the data that is ingested and served
and reingested and re-served.
A big consideration for data engineers in the serving stage of the lifecycle is the
separation of duties and concerns. If you’re at an early-stage company, the data
engineer may also be an ML engineer or data scientist; this is not sustainable. As the
company grows, you need to establish a clear division of duties with other data team
members.
Adopting a data mesh dramatically reorganizes team responsibilities, and every
domain team takes on aspects of serving. For a data mesh to be successful, each
team must work effectively on its data-serving responsibilities, and teams must also
effectively collaborate to ensure organizational success.
Undercurrents
The undercurrents come to finality with serving. Remember that the data engineering
lifecycle is just that—a lifecycle. What goes around comes around. We see many
360
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

