# Principle 8: Prioritize Security

Paginas: 109-109

13 Tom Grey, “5 Principles for Cloud-Native Architecture—What It Is and How to Master It,” Google Cloud
blog, June 19, 2019, https://oreil.ly/4NkGf.
14 Amazon Web Services, “Security in AWS WAF,” AWS WAF documentation, https://oreil.ly/rEFoU.
Principle 8: Prioritize Security
Every data engineer must assume responsibility for the security of the systems
they build and maintain. We focus now on two main ideas: zero-trust security
and the shared responsibility security model. These align closely to a cloud-native
architecture.
Hardened-perimeter and zero-trust security models
To define zero-trust security, it’s helpful to start by understanding the traditional
hard-perimeter security model and its limitations, as detailed in Google Cloud’s Five
Principles:13
Traditional architectures place a lot of faith in perimeter security, crudely a hard‐
ened network perimeter with “trusted things” inside and “untrusted things” outside.
Unfortunately, this approach has always been vulnerable to insider attacks, as well as
external threats such as spear phishing.
The 1996 film Mission Impossible presents a perfect example of the hard-perimeter
security model and its limitations. In the movie, the CIA hosts highly sensitive data
on a storage system inside a room with extremely tight physical security. Ethan Hunt
infiltrates CIA headquarters and exploits a human target to gain physical access to the
storage system. Once inside the secure room, he can exfiltrate data with relative ease.
For at least a decade, alarming media reports have made us aware of the growing
menace of security breaches that exploit human targets inside hardened organiza‐
tional security perimeters. Even as employees work on highly secure corporate
networks, they remain connected to the outside world through email and mobile
devices. External threats effectively become internal threats.
In a cloud-native environment, the notion of a hardened perimeter erodes further. All
assets are connected to the outside world to some degree. While virtual private cloud
(VPC) networks can be defined with no external connectivity, the API control plane
that engineers use to define these networks still faces the internet.
The shared responsibility model
Amazon emphasizes the shared responsibility model, which divides security into the
security of the cloud and security in the cloud. AWS is responsible for the security of
the cloud:14
84
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

