# Tight Versus Loose Coupling: Tiers, Monoliths, and Microservices

Paginas: 115-118

Figure 3-4. A simple horizontal distributed system utilizing a leader-follower architec‐
ture, with one leader node and three worker nodes
Tight Versus Loose Coupling: Tiers, Monoliths, and Microservices
When designing a data architecture, you choose how much interdependence you
want to include within your various domains, services, and resources. On one end
of the spectrum, you can choose to have extremely centralized dependencies and
workflows. Every part of a domain and service is vitally dependent upon every other
domain and service. This pattern is known as tightly coupled.
On the other end of the spectrum, you have decentralized domains and services that
do not have strict dependence on each other, in a pattern known as loose coupling.
In a loosely coupled scenario, it’s easy for decentralized teams to build systems whose
data may not be usable by their peers. Be sure to assign common standards, owner‐
ship, responsibility, and accountability to the teams owning their respective domains
and services. Designing “good” data architecture relies on trade-offs between the tight
and loose coupling of domains and services.
It’s worth noting that many of the ideas in this section originate in software develop‐
ment. We’ll try to retain the context of these big ideas’ original intent and spirit—
keeping them agnostic of data—while later explaining some differences you should be
aware of when applying these concepts to data specifically.
Architecture tiers
As you develop your architecture, it helps to be aware of architecture tiers. Your
architecture has layers—data, application, business logic, presentation, and so forth
—and you need to know how to decouple these layers. Because tight coupling of
modalities presents obvious vulnerabilities, keep in mind how you structure the
layers of your architecture to achieve maximum reliability and flexibility. Let’s look at
single-tier and multitier architecture.
Single tier. In a single-tier architecture, your database and application are tightly
coupled, residing on a single server (Figure 3-5). This server could be your laptop
or a single virtual machine (VM) in the cloud. The tightly coupled nature means if
90
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

the server, the database, or the application fails, the entire architecture fails. While
single-tier architectures are good for prototyping and development, they are not
advised for production environments because of the obvious failure risks.
Figure 3-5. Single-tier architecture
Even when single-tier architectures build in redundancy (for example, a failover
replica), they present significant limitations in other ways. For instance, it is often
impractical (and not advisable) to run analytics queries against production applica‐
tion databases. Doing so risks overwhelming the database and causing the application
to become unavailable. A single-tier architecture is fine for testing systems on a local
machine but is not advised for production uses.
Multitier. The challenges of a tightly coupled single-tier architecture are solved by
decoupling the data and application. A multitier (also known as n-tier) architecture
is composed of separate layers: data, application, business logic, presentation, etc.
These layers are bottom-up and hierarchical, meaning the lower layer isn’t necessarily
dependent on the upper layers; the upper layers depend on the lower layers. The
notion is to separate data from the application, and application from the presentation.
A common multitier architecture is a three-tier architecture, a widely used client-
server design. A three-tier architecture consists of data, application logic, and presen‐
tation tiers (Figure 3-6). Each tier is isolated from the other, allowing for separation of
concerns. With a three-tier architecture, you’re free to use whatever technologies you
prefer within each tier without the need to be monolithically focused.
Figure 3-6. A three-tier architecture
Major Architecture Concepts
|
91

We’ve seen many single-tier architectures in production. Single-tier architectures
offer simplicity but also severe limitations. Eventually, an organization or application
outgrows this arrangement; it works well until it doesn’t. For instance, in a single-tier
architecture, the data and logic layers share and compete for resources (disk, CPU,
and memory) in ways that are simply avoided in a multitier architecture. Resources
are spread across various tiers. Data engineers should use tiers to evaluate their
layered architecture and the way dependencies are handled. Again, start simple and
bake in evolution to additional tiers as your architecture becomes more complex.
In a multitier architecture, you need to consider separating your layers and the
way resources are shared within layers when working with a distributed system.
Distributed systems under the hood power many technologies you’ll encounter across
the data engineering lifecycle. First, think about whether you want resource conten‐
tion with your nodes. If not, exercise a shared-nothing architecture: a single node
handles each request, meaning other nodes do not share resources such as memory,
disk, or CPU with this node or with each other. Data and resources are isolated to the
node. Alternatively, various nodes can handle multiple requests and share resources
but at the risk of resource contention. Another consideration is whether nodes should
share the same disk and memory accessible by all nodes. This is called a shared disk
architecture and is common when you want shared resources if a random node failure
occurs.
Monoliths
The general notion of a monolith includes as much as possible under one roof; in its
most extreme version, a monolith consists of a single codebase running on a single
machine that provides both the application logic and user interface.
Coupling within monoliths can be viewed in two ways: technical coupling and
domain coupling. Technical coupling refers to architectural tiers, while domain cou‐
pling refers to the way domains are coupled together. A monolith has varying degrees
of coupling among technologies and domains. You could have an application with
various layers decoupled in a multitier architecture but still share multiple domains.
Or, you could have a single-tier architecture serving a single domain.
The tight coupling of a monolith implies a lack of modularity of its components.
Swapping out or upgrading components in a monolith is often an exercise in trading
one pain for another. Because of the tightly coupled nature, reusing components
across the architecture is difficult or impossible. When evaluating how to improve
a monolithic architecture, it’s often a game of whack-a-mole: one component is
improved, often at the expense of unknown consequences with other areas of the
monolith.
Data teams will often ignore solving the growing complexity of their monolith, letting
it devolve into a big ball of mud.
92
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

Chapter 4 provides a more extensive discussion comparing monoliths to distributed
technologies. We also discuss the distributed monolith, a strange hybrid that emerges
when engineers build distributed systems with excessive tight coupling.
Microservices
Compared with the attributes of a monolith—interwoven services, centralization, and
tight coupling among services—microservices are the polar opposite. Microservices
architecture comprises separate, decentralized, and loosely coupled services. Each
service has a specific function and is decoupled from other services operating within
its domain. If one service temporarily goes down, it won’t affect the ability of other
services to continue functioning.
A question that comes up often is how to convert your monolith into many micro‐
services (Figure 3-7). This completely depends on how complex your monolith is
and how much effort it will be to start extracting services out of it. It’s entirely
possible that your monolith cannot be broken apart, in which case, you’ll want
to start creating a new parallel architecture that has the services decoupled in a
microservices-friendly manner. We don’t suggest an entire refactor but instead break
out services. The monolith didn’t arrive overnight and is a technology issue as an
organizational one. Be sure you get buy-in from stakeholders of the monolith if you
plan to break it apart.
Figure 3-7. An extremely monolithic architecture runs all functionality inside a single
codebase, potentially colocating a database on the same host server
If you’d like to learn more about breaking apart a monolith, we suggest reading the
fantastic, pragmatic guide Software Architecture: The Hard Parts by Neal Ford et al.
(O’Reilly).
Major Architecture Concepts
|
93

