# Queries on Streaming Data

Paginas: 306-311

3 The authors are aware of an incident involving a new analyst at a large grocery store chain running SELECT *
on a production database and bringing down a critical inventory database for three days.
Leverage cached query results
Let’s say you have an intensive query that you often run on a database that charges
you for the amount of data you query. Each time a query is run, this costs you money.
Instead of rerunning the same query on the database repeatedly and incurring mas‐
sive charges, wouldn’t it be nice if the results of the query were stored and available
for instant retrieval? Thankfully, many cloud OLAP databases cache query results.
When a query is initially run, it will retrieve data from various sources, filter and join
it, and output a result. This initial query—a cold query—is similar to the notion of
cold data we explored in Chapter 6. For argument’s sake, let’s say this query took 40
seconds to run. Assuming your database caches query results, rerunning the same
query might return results in 1 second or less. The results were cached, and the query
didn’t need to run cold. Whenever possible, leverage query cache results to reduce
pressure on your database and provide a better user experience for frequently run
queries. Note also that materialized views provide another form of query caching (see
“Materialized Views, Federation, and Query Virtualization” on page 323).
Queries on Streaming Data
Streaming data is constantly in flight. As you might imagine, querying streaming
data is different from batch data. To fully take advantage of a data stream, we must
adapt query patterns that reflect its real-time nature. For example, systems such as
Kafka and Pulsar make it easier to query streaming data sources. Let’s look at some
common ways to do this.
Basic query patterns on streams
Recall continuous CDC, discussed in Chapter 7. CDC, in this form, essentially sets up
an analytics database as a fast follower to a production database. One of the longest-
standing streaming query patterns simply entails querying the analytics database,
retrieving statistical results and aggregations with a slight lag behind the production
database.
The fast-follower approach. How is this a streaming query pattern? Couldn’t we
accomplish the same thing simply by running our queries on the production data‐
base? In principle, yes; in practice, no. Production databases generally aren’t equipped
to handle production workloads and simultaneously run large analytics scans across
significant quantities of data. Running such queries can slow the production applica‐
tion or even cause it to crash.3 The basic CDC query pattern allows us to serve
real-time analytics with a minimal impact on the production system.
Queries
|
281

The fast-follower pattern can utilize a conventional transactional database as the
follower, but there are significant advantages to using a proper OLAP-oriented system
(Figure 8-3). Both Druid and BigQuery combine a streaming buffer with long-term
columnar storage in a setup somewhat similar to the Lambda architecture (see Chap‐
ter 3). This works extremely well for computing trailing statistics on vast historical
data with near real-time updates.
Figure 8-3. CDC with a fast-follower analytics database
The fast-follower CDC approach has critical limitations. It doesn’t fundamentally
rethink batch query patterns. You’re still running SELECT queries against the current
table state, and missing the opportunity to dynamically trigger events off changes in
the stream.
The Kappa architecture. Next, recall the Kappa architecture we discussed in Chapter 3.
The principal idea of this architecture is to handle all data like events and store these
events as a stream rather than a table (Figure 8-4). When production application
databases are the source, Kappa architecture stores events from CDC. Event streams
can also flow directly from an application backend, from a swarm of IoT devices,
or any system that generates events and can push them over a network. Instead of
simply treating a streaming storage system as a buffer, Kappa architecture retains
events in storage during a more extended retention period, and data can be directly
queried from this storage. The retention period can be pretty long (months or years).
Note that this is much longer than the retention period used in purely real-time
oriented systems, usually a week at most.
Figure 8-4. The Kappa architecture is built around streaming storage and ingest systems
The “big idea” in Kappa architecture is to treat streaming storage as a real-time trans‐
port layer and a database for retrieving and querying historical data. This happens
282
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

either through the direct query capabilities of the streaming storage system or with
the help of external tools. For example, Kafka KSQL supports aggregation, statistical
calculations, and even sessionization. If query requirements are more complex or
data needs to be combined with other data sources, an external tool such as Spark
reads a time range of data from Kafka and computes the query results. The streaming
storage system can also feed other applications or a stream processor such as Flink or
Beam.
Windows, triggers, emitted statistics, and late-arriving data
One fundamental limitation of traditional batch queries is that this paradigm gener‐
ally treats the query engine as an external observer. An actor external to the data
causes the query to run—perhaps an hourly cron job or a product manager opening a
dashboard.
Most widely used streaming systems, on the other hand, support the notion of com‐
putations triggered directly from the data itself. They might emit mean and median
statistics every time a certain number of records are collected in the buffer or output
a summary when a user session closes.
Windows are an essential feature in streaming queries and processing. Windows are
small batches that are processed based on dynamic triggers. Windows are generated
dynamically over time in some ways. Let’s look at some common types of windows:
session, fixed-time, and sliding. We’ll also look at watermarks.
Session window. A session window groups events that occur close together, and filters
out periods of inactivity when no events occur. We might say that a user session
is any time interval with no inactivity gap of five minutes or more. Our batch
system collects data by a user ID key, orders events, determines the gaps and session
boundaries, and calculates statistics for each session. Data engineers often sessionize
data retrospectively by applying time conditions to user activity on web and desktop
apps.
In a streaming session, this process can happen dynamically. Note that session win‐
dows are per key; in the preceding example, each user gets their own set of windows.
The system accumulates data per user. If a five-minute gap with no activity occurs,
the system closes the window, sends its calculations, and flushes the data. If new
events arrive for the use, the system starts a new session window.
Session windows may also make a provision for late-arriving data. Allowing data to
arrive up to five minutes late to account for network conditions and system latency,
the system will open the window if a late-arriving event indicates activity less than
five minutes after the last event. We will have more to say about late-arriving data
throughout this chapter. Figure 8-5 shows three session windows, each separated by
five minutes of inactivity.
Queries
|
283

Figure 8-5. Session window with a five-minute timeout for inactivity
Making sessionization dynamic and near real-time fundamentally changes its utility.
With retrospective sessionization, we could automate specific actions a day or an
hour after a user session closed (e.g., a follow-up email with a coupon for a product
viewed by the user). With dynamic sessionization, the user could get an alert in a
mobile app that is immediately useful based on their activity in the last 15 minutes.
Fixed-time windows. A fixed-time (aka tumbling) window features fixed time periods
that run on a fixed schedule and processes all data since the previous window is
closed. For example, we might close a window every 20 seconds and process all data
arriving from the previous window to give a mean and median statistic (Figure 8-6).
Statistics would be emitted as soon as they could be calculated after the window
closed.
Figure 8-6. Tumbling/fixed window
This is similar to traditional batch ETL processing, where we might run a data update
job every day or every hour. The streaming system allows us to generate windows
more frequently and deliver results with lower latency. As we’ll repeatedly emphasize,
batch is a special case of streaming.
Sliding windows. Events in a sliding window are bucketed into windows of fixed time
length, where separate windows might overlap. For example, we could generate a new
60-second window every 30 seconds (Figure 8-7). Just as we did before, we can emit
mean and median statistics.
284
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

Figure 8-7. Sliding windows
The sliding can vary. For example, we might think of the window as truly sliding
continuously but emitting statistics only when certain conditions (triggers) are met.
Suppose we used a 30-second continuously sliding window but calculated a statistic
only when a user clicked a particular banner. This would lead to an extremely high
rate of output when many users click the banner, and no calculations during a lull.
Watermarks. We’ve covered various types of windows and their uses. As discussed in
Chapter 7, data is sometimes ingested out of the order from which it originated. A
watermark (Figure 8-8) is a threshold used by a window to determine whether data in
a window is within the established time interval or whether it’s considered late. If data
arrives that is new to the window but older than the timestamp of the watermark, it is
considered to be late-arriving data.
Figure 8-8. Watermark acting as a threshold for late-arriving data
Queries
|
285

Combining streams with other data
As we’ve mentioned before, we often derive value from data by combining it with
other data. Streaming data is no different. For instance, multiple streams can be
combined, or a stream can be combined with batch historical data.
Conventional table joins. Some tables may be fed by streams (Figure 8-9). The most
basic approach to this problem is simply joining these two tables in a database. A
stream can feed one or both of these tables.
Figure 8-9. Joining two tables fed by streams
Enrichment. Enrichment means that we join a stream to other data (Figure 8-10).
Typically, this is done to provide enhanced data into another stream. For example,
suppose that an online retailer receives an event stream from a partner business
containing product and user IDs. The retailer wishes to enhance these events with
product details and demographic information on the users. The retailer feeds these
events to a serverless function that looks up the product and user in an in-memory
database (say, a cache), adds the required information to the event, and outputs the
enhanced events to another stream.
Figure 8-10. In this example, a stream is enriched with data residing in object storage,
resulting in a new enriched dataset
In practice, the enrichment source could originate almost anywhere—a table in a
cloud data warehouse or RDBMS, or a file in object storage. It’s simply a question of
reading from the source and storing the requisite enrichment data in an appropriate
place for retrieval by the stream.
Stream-to-stream joining. Increasingly, streaming systems support direct stream-to-
stream joining. Suppose that an online retailer wishes to join its web event data with
streaming data from an ad platform. The company can feed both streams into Spark,
286
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

