# Our Advice

Paginas: 171-171

server, use a boot script or build an image. Deploy code to the server through a
CI/CD pipeline.
Use clusters and autoscaling.
Take advantage of the cloud’s ability to grow and shrink compute resources
on demand. As your application increases its usage, cluster your application
servers, and use autoscaling capabilities to automatically horizontally scale your
application as demand grows.
Treat your infrastructure as code.
Automation doesn’t apply to just servers and should extend to your infrastruc‐
ture whenever possible. Deploy your infrastructure (servers or otherwise) using
deployment managers such as Terraform, AWS CloudFormation, and Google
Cloud Deployment Manager.
Use containers.
For more sophisticated or heavy-duty workloads with complex installed depen‐
dencies, consider using containers on either a single server or Kubernetes.
Our Advice
Here are some key considerations to help you determine whether serverless is right
for you:
Workload size and complexity
Serverless works best for simple, discrete tasks and workloads. It’s not as suit‐
able if you have many moving parts or require a lot of compute or memory
horsepower. In that case, consider using containers and a container workflow
orchestration framework like Kubernetes.
Execution frequency and duration
How many requests per second will your serverless application process? How
long will each request take to process? Cloud serverless platforms have limits
on execution frequency, concurrency, and duration. If your application can’t
function neatly within these limits, it is time to consider a container-oriented
approach.
Requests and networking
Serverless platforms often utilize some form of simplified networking and don’t
support all cloud virtual networking features, such as VPCs and firewalls.
Language
What language do you typically use? If it’s not one of the officially supported
languages supported by the serverless platform, you should consider containers
instead.
146
|
Chapter 4: Choosing Technologies Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle

