# Eventual Versus Strong Consistency

Paginas: 223-223

platforms and HDFS are storage systems that utilize magnetic disks. Still higher levels
of storage abstraction exist, such as data lakes and lakehouses (which we cover in
“Data Engineering Storage Abstractions” on page 215).
Single Machine Versus Distributed Storage
As data storage and access patterns become more complex and outgrow the useful‐
ness of a single server, distributing data to more than one server becomes necessary.
Data can be stored on multiple servers, known as distributed storage. This is a dis‐
tributed system whose purpose is to store data in a distributed fashion (Figure 6-4).
Figure 6-4. Single machine versus distributed storage on multiple servers
Distributed storage coordinates the activities of multiple servers to store, retrieve,
and process data faster and at a larger scale, all while providing redundancy in case
a server becomes unavailable. Distributed storage is common in architectures where
you want built-in redundancy and scalability for large amounts of data. For example,
object storage, Apache Spark, and cloud data warehouses rely on distributed storage
architectures.
Data engineers must always be aware of the consistency paradigms of the distributed
systems, which we’ll explore next.
Eventual Versus Strong Consistency
A challenge with distributed systems is that your data is spread across multiple
servers. How does this system keep the data consistent? Unfortunately, distributed
systems pose a dilemma for storage and query accuracy. It takes time to replicate
changes across the nodes of a system; often a balance exists between getting current
data and getting “sorta” current data in a distributed database. Let’s look at two
common consistency patterns in distributed systems: eventual and strong.
We’ve covered ACID compliance throughout this book, starting in Chapter 5.
Another acronym is BASE, which stands for basically available, soft-state, eventual
consistency. Think of it as the opposite of ACID. BASE is the basis of eventual
consistency. Let’s briefly explore its components:
Basically available
Consistency is not guaranteed, but database reads and writes are made on a
best-effort basis, meaning consistent data is available most of the time.
198
|
Chapter 6: Storage

