# DataOps

Paginas: 84-88

6 We espouse the notion that ethical behavior is doing the right thing when no one is watching, an idea that
occurs in the writings of C. S. Lewis, Charles Marshall, and many other authors.
(it should be noted that data retrieval isn’t so cheap, but that’s for another conversa‐
tion). These storage classes also support extra policy controls to prevent accidental or
deliberate deletion of critical archives.
Second, privacy and data retention laws such as the GDPR and the CCPA require
data engineers to actively manage data destruction to respect users’ “right to be
forgotten.” Data engineers must know what consumer data they retain and must have
procedures to destroy data in response to requests and compliance requirements.
Data destruction is straightforward in a cloud data warehouse. SQL semantics allow
deletion of rows conforming to a where clause. Data destruction was more challeng‐
ing in data lakes, where write-once, read-many was the default storage pattern. Tools
such as Hive ACID and Delta Lake allow easy management of deletion transactions
at scale. New generations of metadata management, data lineage, and cataloging tools
will also streamline the end of the data engineering lifecycle.
Ethics and privacy
The last several years of data breaches, misinformation, and mishandling of data
make one thing clear: data impacts people. Data used to live in the Wild West, freely
collected and traded like baseball cards. Those days are long gone. Whereas data’s
ethical and privacy implications were once considered nice to have, like security,
they’re now central to the general data lifecycle. Data engineers need to do the right
thing when no one else is watching, because everyone will be watching someday.6
We hope that more organizations will encourage a culture of good data ethics and
privacy.
How do ethics and privacy impact the data engineering lifecycle? Data engineers
need to ensure that datasets mask personally identifiable information (PII) and other
sensitive information; bias can be identified and tracked in datasets as they are trans‐
formed. Regulatory requirements and compliance penalties are only growing. Ensure
that your data assets are compliant with a growing number of data regulations, such
as GDPR and CCPA. Please take this seriously. We offer tips throughout the book to
ensure that you’re baking ethics and privacy into the data engineering lifecycle.
DataOps
DataOps maps the best practices of Agile methodology, DevOps, and statistical pro‐
cess control (SPC) to data. Whereas DevOps aims to improve the release and quality
of software products, DataOps does the same thing for data products.
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
59

7 “What Is DataOps,” DataKitchen FAQ page, accessed May 5, 2022, https://oreil.ly/Ns06w.
Data products differ from software products because of the way data is used. A soft‐
ware product provides specific functionality and technical features for end users. By
contrast, a data product is built around sound business logic and metrics, whose users
make decisions or build models that perform automated actions. A data engineer
must understand both the technical aspects of building software products and the
business logic, quality, and metrics that will create excellent data products.
Like DevOps, DataOps borrows much from lean manufacturing and supply chain
management, mixing people, processes, and technology to reduce time to value. As
Data Kitchen (experts in DataOps) describes it:7
DataOps is a collection of technical practices, workflows, cultural norms, and architec‐
tural patterns that enable:
• Rapid innovation and experimentation delivering new insights to customers with
•
increasing velocity
• Extremely high data quality and very low error rates
•
• Collaboration across complex arrays of people, technology, and environments
•
• Clear measurement, monitoring, and transparency of results
•
Lean practices (such as lead time reduction and minimizing defects) and the resulting
improvements to quality and productivity are things we are glad to see gaining
momentum both in software and data operations.
First and foremost, DataOps is a set of cultural habits; the data engineering team
needs to adopt a cycle of communicating and collaborating with the business,
breaking down silos, continuously learning from successes and mistakes, and rapid
iteration. Only when these cultural habits are set in place can the team get the best
results from technology and tools.
Depending on a company’s data maturity, a data engineer has some options to build
DataOps into the fabric of the overall data engineering lifecycle. If the company
has no preexisting data infrastructure or practices, DataOps is very much a green‐
field opportunity that can be baked in from day one. With an existing project or
infrastructure that lacks DataOps, a data engineer can begin adding DataOps into
workflows. We suggest first starting with observability and monitoring to get a
window into the performance of a system, then adding in automation and incident
response. A data engineer may work alongside an existing DataOps team to improve
the data engineering lifecycle in a data-mature company. In all cases, a data engineer
must be aware of the philosophy and technical aspects of DataOps.
60
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

DataOps has three core technical elements: automation, monitoring and observabil‐
ity, and incident response (Figure 2-8). Let’s look at each of these pieces and how they
relate to the data engineering lifecycle.
Figure 2-8. The three pillars of DataOps
Automation
Automation enables reliability and consistency in the DataOps process and allows
data engineers to quickly deploy new product features and improvements to existing
workflows. DataOps automation has a similar framework and workflow to DevOps,
consisting of change management (environment, code, and data version control),
continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD), and configuration as code.
Like DevOps, DataOps practices monitor and maintain the reliability of technology
and systems (data pipelines, orchestration, etc.), with the added dimension of check‐
ing for data quality, data/model drift, metadata integrity, and more.
Let’s briefly discuss the evolution of DataOps automation within a hypothetical orga‐
nization. An organization with a low level of DataOps maturity often attempts to
schedule multiple stages of data transformation processes using cron jobs. This works
well for a while. As data pipelines become more complicated, several things are likely
to happen. If the cron jobs are hosted on a cloud instance, the instance may have an
operational problem, causing the jobs to stop running unexpectedly. As the spacing
between jobs becomes tighter, a job will eventually run long, causing a subsequent job
to fail or produce stale data. Engineers may not be aware of job failures until they
hear from analysts that their reports are out-of-date.
As the organization’s data maturity grows, data engineers will typically adopt an
orchestration framework, perhaps Airflow or Dagster. Data engineers are aware that
Airflow presents an operational burden, but the benefits of orchestration eventually
outweigh the complexity. Engineers will gradually migrate their cron jobs to Airflow
jobs. Now, dependencies are checked before jobs run. More transformation jobs can
be packed into a given time because each job can start as soon as upstream data is
ready rather than at a fixed, predetermined time.
The data engineering team still has room for operational improvements. A data
scientist eventually deploys a broken DAG, bringing down the Airflow web server
and leaving the data team operationally blind. After enough such headaches, the
data engineering team members realize that they need to stop allowing manual DAG
deployments. In their next phase of operational maturity, they adopt automated
DAG deployment. DAGs are tested before deployment, and monitoring processes
ensure that the new DAGs start running properly. In addition, data engineers block
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
61

8 Andy Petrella, “Data Observability Driven Development: The Perfect Analogy for Beginners,” Kensu, accessed
May 5, 2022, https://oreil.ly/MxvSX.
the deployment of new Python dependencies until installation is validated. After
automation is adopted, the data team is much happier and experiences far fewer
headaches.
One of the tenets of the DataOps Manifesto is “Embrace change.” This does not
mean change for the sake of change but rather goal-oriented change. At each stage
of our automation journey, opportunities exist for operational improvement. Even at
the high level of maturity that we’ve described here, further room for improvement
remains. Engineers might embrace a next-generation orchestration framework that
builds in better metadata capabilities. Or they might try to develop a framework that
builds DAGs automatically based on data-lineage specifications. The main point is
that engineers constantly seek to implement improvements in automation that will
reduce their workload and increase the value that they deliver to the business.
Observability and monitoring
As we tell our clients, “Data is a silent killer.” We’ve seen countless examples of bad
data lingering in reports for months or years. Executives may make key decisions
from this bad data, discovering the error only much later. The outcomes are usually
bad and sometimes catastrophic for the business. Initiatives are undermined and
destroyed, years of work wasted. In some of the worst cases, bad data may lead
companies to financial ruin.
Another horror story occurs when the systems that create the data for reports ran‐
domly stop working, resulting in reports being delayed by several days. The data team
doesn’t know until they’re asked by stakeholders why reports are late or producing
stale information. Eventually, various stakeholders lose trust in the capabilities of
the core data team and start their own splinter teams. The result is many different
unstable systems, inconsistent reports, and silos.
If you’re not observing and monitoring your data and the systems that produce the
data, you’re inevitably going to experience your own data horror story. Observability,
monitoring, logging, alerting, and tracing are all critical to getting ahead of any
problems along the data engineering lifecycle. We recommend you incorporate SPC
to understand whether events being monitored are out of line and which incidents
are worth responding to.
Petrella’s DODD method mentioned previously in this chapter provides an excellent
framework for thinking about data observability. DODD is much like test-driven
development (TDD) in software engineering:8
62
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

The purpose of DODD is to give everyone involved in the data chain visibility into
the data and data applications so that everyone involved in the data value chain has
the ability to identify changes to the data or data applications at every step—from
ingestion to transformation to analysis—to help troubleshoot or prevent data issues.
DODD focuses on making data observability a first-class consideration in the data
engineering lifecycle.
We cover many aspects of monitoring and observability throughout the data engi‐
neering lifecycle in later chapters.
Incident response
A high-functioning data team using DataOps will be able to ship new data products
quickly. But mistakes will inevitably happen. A system may have downtime, a new
data model may break downstream reports, an ML model may become stale and
provide bad predictions—countless problems can interrupt the data engineering life‐
cycle. Incident response is about using the automation and observability capabilities
mentioned previously to rapidly identify root causes of an incident and resolve it as
reliably and quickly as possible.
Incident response isn’t just about technology and tools, though these are beneficial;
it’s also about open and blameless communication, both on the data engineering team
and across the organization. As Werner Vogels, CTO of Amazon Web Services, is
famous for saying, “Everything breaks all the time.” Data engineers must be prepared
for a disaster and ready to respond as swiftly and efficiently as possible.
Data engineers should proactively find issues before the business reports them.
Failure happens, and when the stakeholders or end users see problems, they will
present them. They will be unhappy to do so. The feeling is different when they
go to raise those issues to a team and see that they are actively being worked on
to resolve already. Which team’s state would you trust more as an end user? Trust
takes a long time to build and can be lost in minutes. Incident response is as much
about retroactively responding to incidents as proactively addressing them before
they happen.
DataOps summary
At this point, DataOps is still a work in progress. Practitioners have done a good job
of adapting DevOps principles to the data domain and mapping out an initial vision
through the DataOps Manifesto and other resources. Data engineers would do well
to make DataOps practices a high priority in all of their work. The up-front effort
will see a significant long-term payoff through faster delivery of products, better
reliability and accuracy of data, and greater overall value for the business.
The state of operations in data engineering is still quite immature compared with
software engineering. Many data engineering tools, especially legacy monoliths, are
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
63

