# The Future of Data Egress Fees

Paginas: 427-427

2 Mark Haranas and Steven Burke, “Oracle Bests Cloud Rivals to Win Blockbuster Cloud Deal,” CRN, April 28,
2020, https://oreil.ly/LkqOi.
3 Corey Quinn, “Why Zoom Chose Oracle Cloud Over AWS and Maybe You Should Too,” Last Week in AWS,
April 28, 2020, https://oreil.ly/Lx5uu.
offers AWS Direct Connect. In addition to providing higher bandwidth and lower
latency, these connection options often offer dramatic discounts on data egress
charges. In a typical scenario in the US, AWS egress charges drop from 9 cents per
gigabyte over the public internet to 2 cents per gigabyte over direct connect.
CDNs
Content delivery networks (CDNs) can offer dramatic performance enhancements
and discounts for delivering data assets to the public or customers. Cloud providers
offer CDN options and many other providers, such as Cloudflare. CDNs work best
when delivering the same data repeatedly, but make sure that you read the fine
print. Remember that CDNs don’t work everywhere, and certain countries may block
internet traffic and CDN delivery.
The Future of Data Egress Fees
Data egress fees are a significant impediment to interoperability, data sharing, and
data movement to the cloud. Right now, data egress fees are a moat designed to
prevent public cloud customers from leaving or deploying across multiple clouds.
But interesting signals indicate that change may be on the horizon. In particular,
Zoom’s announcement in 2020 near the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic that it
chose Oracle as its cloud infrastructure provider caught the attention of many cloud
watchers.2 How did Oracle win this significant cloud contract for critical remote work
infrastructure against the cloud heavyweights? AWS expert Corey Quinn offers a
reasonably straightforward answer.3 By his back-of-the-envelope calculation, Zoom’s
AWS monthly data egress fees would run over $11 million at list price; Oracle’s would
cost less than $2 million.
We suspect that GCP, AWS, or Azure will announce significant cuts in egress fees
in the next few years, leading to a sea change in the cloud business model. It’s
also entirely possible that egress fees go away, similar to how limited and expensive
cell-phone minutes disappeared decades ago.
402
|
Appendix B: Cloud Networking

