# What Is a Data Model?

Paginas: 313-313

data systems allowed engineers to bypass traditional data modeling, sometimes for
legitimate performance gains. Other times, the lack of rigorous data modeling created
data swamps, along with lots of redundant, mismatched, or simply wrong data.
Nowadays, the pendulum seems to be swinging back toward data modeling. The
growing popularity of data management (in particular, data governance and data
quality) is pushing the need for coherent business logic. The meteoric rise of data’s
prominence in companies creates a growing recognition that modeling is critical for
realizing value at the higher levels of the Data Science Hierarchy of Needs pyramid.
That said, we believe that new paradigms are required to truly embrace the needs of
streaming data and ML. In this section, we survey current mainstream data modeling
techniques and briefly muse on the future of data modeling.
What Is a Data Model?
A data model represents the way data relates to the real world. It reflects how the
data must be structured and standardized to best reflect your organization’s processes,
definitions, workflows, and logic. A good data model captures how communication
and work naturally flow within your organization. In contrast, a poor data model (or
nonexistent one) is haphazard, confusing, and incoherent.
Some data professionals view data modeling as tedious and reserved for “big enterpri‐
ses.” Like most good hygiene practices—such as flossing your teeth and getting a
good night’s sleep—data modeling is acknowledged as a good thing to do but is often
ignored in practice. Ideally, every organization should model its data if only to ensure
that business logic and rules are translated at the data layer.
When modeling data, it’s critical to focus on translating the model to business
outcomes. A good data model should correlate with impactful business decisions.
For example, a customer might mean different things to different departments in
a company. Is someone who’s bought from you over the last 30 days a customer?
What if they haven’t bought from you in the previous six months or a year? Carefully
defining and modeling this customer data can have a massive impact on downstream
reports on customer behavior or the creation of customer churn models whereby the
time since the last purchase is a critical variable.
A good data model contains consistent definitions. In practice,
definitions are often messy throughout a company. Can you think
of concepts or terms in your company that might mean different
things to different people?
288
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

