# File Exchange

Paginas: 376-376

• Know the difference between the applications of batch and streaming data in
•
training ML models. For example, batch data often fits well with offline model
training, while streaming data works with online training.
• What are data cascades, and how might they impact ML models?
•
• Are results returned in real time or in batch? For example, a batch speech
•
transcription model might process speech samples and return text in batch after
an API call. A product recommendation model might need to operate in real
time as the customer interacts with an online retail site.
• The use of structured versus unstructured data. We might cluster tabular (struc‐
•
tured) customer data or recognize images (unstructured) by using a neural net.
ML is a vast subject area, and this book won’t teach you these topics, or even
ML generalities. If you’d like to learn more about ML, we suggest reading Hands
on Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow by Aurélien Géron
(O’Reilly); countless other ML courses and books are available online. Because the
books and online courses evolve so rapidly, do your research on what seems like a
good fit for you.
Ways to Serve Data for Analytics and ML
As with analytics, data engineers provide data scientists and ML engineers with the
data they need to do their jobs. We have placed serving for ML alongside analytics
because the pipelines and processes are extremely similar. There are many ways to
serve data for analytics and ML. Some common ways to serve this data include files,
databases, query engines, and data sharing. Let’s briefly look at each.
File Exchange
File exchange is ubiquitous in data serving. We process data and generate files to pass
to data consumers.
Keep in mind that a file might be used for many purposes. A data scientist might
load a text file (unstructured data) of customer messages to analyze the sentiments
of customer complaints. A business unit might receive invoice data from a partner
company as a collection of CSVs (structured data), and an analyst must perform
some statistical analysis on these files. Or, a data vendor might provide an online
retailer with images of products on a competitor’s website (unstructured data) for
automated classification using computer vision.
Ways to Serve Data for Analytics and ML
|
351

