# Our Advice

Paginas: 154-154

A multicloud methodology has several disadvantages. As we just mentioned, data
egress costs and networking bottlenecks are critical. Going multicloud can introduce
significant complexity. Companies must now manage a dizzying array of services
across several clouds; cross-cloud integration and security present a considerable
challenge; multicloud networking can be diabolically complicated.
A new generation of “cloud of clouds” services aims to facilitate multicloud with
reduced complexity by offering services across clouds and seamlessly replicating data
between clouds or managing workloads on several clouds through a single pane of
glass. To cite one example, a Snowflake account runs in a single cloud region, but
customers can readily spin up other accounts in GCP, AWS, or Azure. Snowflake
provides simple scheduled data replication between these various cloud accounts.
The Snowflake interface is essentially the same in all of these accounts, removing the
training burden of switching between cloud-native data services.
The “cloud of clouds” space is evolving quickly; within a few years of this book’s pub‐
lication, many more of these services will be available. Data engineers and architects
would do well to maintain awareness of this quickly changing cloud landscape.
Decentralized: Blockchain and the Edge
Though not widely used now, it’s worth briefly mentioning a new trend that might
become popular over the next decade: decentralized computing. Whereas today’s
applications mainly run on premises and in the cloud, the rise of blockchain, Web
3.0, and edge computing may invert this paradigm. For the moment, decentralized
platforms have proven extremely popular but have not had a significant impact in the
data space; even so, keeping an eye on these platforms is worthwhile as you assess
technology decisions.
Our Advice
From our perspective, we are still at the beginning of the transition to the cloud. Thus
the evidence and arguments around workload placement and migration are in flux.
The cloud itself is changing, with a shift from the IaaS model built around Amazon
EC2 that drove the early growth of AWS and more generally toward more managed
service offerings such as AWS Glue, Google BigQuery, and Snowflake.
We’ve also seen the emergence of new workload placement abstractions. On-premises
services are becoming more cloud-like and abstracted. Hybrid cloud services allow
customers to run fully managed services within their walls while facilitating tight
integration between local and remote environments. Further, the “cloud of clouds” is
beginning to take shape, fueled by third-party services and public cloud vendors.
Location
|
129

