# Data Sharing

Paginas: 201-201

Webhooks
Webhooks are a simple event-based data-transmission pattern. The data source can be
an application backend, a web page, or a mobile app. When specified events happen
in the source system, this triggers a call to an HTTP endpoint hosted by the data
consumer. Notice that the connection goes from the source system to the data sink,
the opposite of typical APIs. For this reason, webhooks are often called reverse APIs.
The endpoint can do various things with the POST event data, potentially triggering
a downstream process or storing the data for future use. For analytics purposes, we’re
interested in collecting these events. Engineers commonly use message queues to
ingest data at high velocity and volume. We will talk about message queues and event
streams later in this chapter.
RPC and gRPC
A remote procedure call (RPC) is commonly used in distributed computing. It allows
you to run a procedure on a remote system.
gRPC is a remote procedure call library developed internally at Google in 2015 and
later released as an open standard. Its use at Google alone would be enough to merit
inclusion in our discussion. Many Google services, such as Google Ads and GCP,
offer gRPC APIs. gRPC is built around the Protocol Buffers open data serialization
standard, also developed by Google.
gRPC emphasizes the efficient bidirectional exchange of data over HTTP/2. Efficiency
refers to aspects such as CPU utilization, power consumption, battery life, and band‐
width. Like GraphQL, gRPC imposes much more specific technical standards than
REST, thus allowing the use of common client libraries and allowing engineers to
develop a skill set that will apply to any gRPC interaction code.
Data Sharing
The core concept of cloud data sharing is that a multitenant system supports security
policies for sharing data among tenants. Concretely, any public cloud object storage
system with a fine-grained permission system can be a platform for data sharing.
Popular cloud data-warehouse platforms also support data-sharing capabilities. Of
course, data can also be shared through download or exchange over email, but a
multitenant system makes the process much easier.
Many modern sharing platforms (especially cloud data warehouses) support row,
column, and sensitive data filtering. Data sharing also streamlines the notion of
the data marketplace, available on several popular clouds and data platforms. Data
marketplaces provide a centralized location for data commerce, where data providers
can advertise their offerings and sell them without worrying about the details of
managing network access to data systems.
176
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

