# Network Access

Paginas: 401-401

Access
Who’s accessing what, when, and from where? What new accesses were granted?
Are there strange patterns with your current users that might indicate their
account is compromised, such as trying to access systems they don’t usually
access or shouldn’t have access to? Do you see new unrecognized users accessing
your system? Be sure to regularly comb through access logs, users, and their roles
to ensure that everything looks OK.
Resources
Monitor your disk, CPU, memory, and I/O for patterns that seem out of the ordi‐
nary. Did your resources suddenly change? If so, this might indicate a security
breach.
Billing
Especially with SaaS and cloud-managed services, you need to oversee costs. Set
up budget alerts to make sure your spending is within expectations. If an unex‐
pected spike occurs in your billing, this might indicate someone or something is
utilizing your resources for malicious purposes.
Excess permissions
Increasingly, vendors are providing tools that monitor for permissions that are
not utilized by a user or service account over some time. These tools can often be
configured to automatically alert an administrator or remove permissions after a
specified elapsed time.
For example, suppose that a particular analyst hasn’t accessed Redshift for six
months. These permissions can be removed, closing a potential security hole.
If the analyst needs to access Redshift in the future, they can put in a ticket to
restore permissions.
It’s best to combine these areas in your monitoring to get a cross-sectional view
of your resource, access, and billing profile. We suggest setting up a dashboard for
everyone on the data team to view monitoring and receive alerts when something
seems out of the ordinary. Couple this with an effective incident response plan to
manage security breaches when they occur, and run through the plan on a regular
basis so you are prepared.
Network Access
We often see data engineers doing pretty wild things regarding network access. In
several instances, we’ve seen publicly available Amazon S3 buckets housing lots of
sensitive data. We’ve also witnessed Amazon EC2 instances with inbound SSH access
open to the whole world for 0.0.0.0/0 (all IPs) or databases with open access to all
inbound requests over the public internet. These are just a few examples of terrible
network security practices.
376
|
Chapter 10: Security and Privacy

