# Queries

Paginas: 297-297

downstream consumption. Finally, we’ll cover whom you’ll work with and the under‐
currents as they relate to this chapter.
A variety of techniques can be used to query, model, and transform data in SQL and
NoSQL databases. This section focuses on queries made to an OLAP system, such
as a data warehouse or data lake. Although many languages exist for querying, for
the sake of convenience and familiarity, throughout most of this chapter, we’ll focus
heavily on SQL, the most popular and universal query language. Most of the concepts
for OLAP databases and SQL will translate to other types of databases and query
languages. This chapter assumes you have an understanding of the SQL language and
related concepts like primary and foreign keys. If these ideas are unfamiliar to you,
countless resources are available to help you get started.
A note on the terms used in this chapter. For convenience, we’ll use the term database
as a shorthand for a query engine and the storage it’s querying; this could be a
cloud data warehouse or Apache Spark querying data stored in S3. We assume the
database has a storage engine that organizes the data under the hood. This extends to
file-based queries (loading a CSV file into a Python notebook) and queries against file
formats such as Parquet.
Also, note that this chapter focuses mainly on the query, modeling patterns, and
transformations related to structured and semistructured data, which data engineers
use often. Many of the practices discussed can also be applied to working with
unstructured data such as images, video, and raw text.
Before we get into modeling and transforming data, let’s look at queries—what they
are, how they work, considerations for improving query performance, and queries on
streaming data.
Queries
Queries are a fundamental part of data engineering, data science, and analysis. Before
you learn about the underlying patterns and technologies for transformations, you
need to understand what queries are, how they work on various data, and techniques
for improving query performance.
This section primarily concerns itself with queries on tabular and semistructured
data. As a data engineer, you’ll most frequently query and transform these data
types. Before we get into more complicated topics about queries, data modeling, and
transformations, let’s start by answering a pretty simple question: what is a query?
272
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

