# Object Storage

Paginas: 230-235

Figure 6-7. Instance store volumes can be used as a processing cache in an ephemeral
Hadoop cluster
We recommend that engineers think about locally attached storage in worst-case
scenarios. What are the consequences of a local disk failure? Of an accidental VM or
cluster shutdown? Of a zonal or regional cloud outage? If none of these scenarios will
have catastrophic consequences when data on locally attached volumes is lost, local
storage may be a cost-effective and performant option. In addition, simple mitigation
strategies (periodic checkpoint backups to S3) can prevent data loss.
Object Storage
Object storage contains objects of all shapes and sizes (Figure 6-8). The term object
storage is somewhat confusing because object has several meanings in computer
science. In this context, we’re talking about a specialized file-like construct. It could
be any type of file—TXT, CSV, JSON, images, videos, or audio.
Figure 6-8. Object storage contains immutable objects of all shapes and sizes. Unlike files
on a local disk, objects cannot be modified in place.
Data Storage Systems
|
205

Object stores have grown in importance and popularity with the rise of big data and
the cloud. Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage (GCS) are
widely used object stores. In addition, many cloud data warehouses (and a growing
number of databases) utilize object storage as their storage layer, and cloud data lakes
generally sit on object stores.
Although many on-premises object storage systems can be installed on server clus‐
ters, we’ll focus mostly on fully managed cloud object stores. From an operational
perspective, one of the most attractive characteristics of cloud object storage is that
it is straightforward to manage and use. Object storage was arguably one of the first
“serverless” services; engineers don’t need to consider the characteristics of underly‐
ing server clusters or disks.
An object store is a key-value store for immutable data objects. We lose much of the
writing flexibility we expect with file storage on a local disk in an object store. Objects
don’t support random writes or append operations; instead, they are written once as a
stream of bytes. After this initial write, objects become immutable. To change data in
an object or append data to it, we must rewrite the full object. Object stores generally
support random reads through range requests, but these lookups may perform much
worse than random reads from data stored on an SSD.
For a software developer used to leveraging local random access file storage, the
characteristics of objects might seem like constraints, but less is more; object stores
don’t need to support locks or change synchronization, allowing data storage across
massive disk clusters. Object stores support extremely performant parallel stream
writes and reads across many disks, and this parallelism is hidden from engineers,
who can simply deal with the stream rather than communicating with individual
disks. In a cloud environment, write speed scales with the number of streams being
written up to quota limits set by the vendor. Read bandwidth can scale with the
number of parallel requests, the number of virtual machines employed to read data,
and the number of CPU cores. These characteristics make object storage ideal for
serving high-volume web traffic or delivering data to highly parallel distributed query
engines.
Typical cloud object stores save data in several availability zones, dramatically reduc‐
ing the odds that storage will go fully offline or be lost in an unrecoverable way. This
durability and availability are built into the cost; cloud storage vendors offer other
storage classes at discounted prices in exchange for reduced durability or availability.
We’ll discuss this in “Storage classes and tiers” on page 210.
Cloud object storage is a key ingredient in separating compute and storage, allowing
engineers to process data with ephemeral clusters and scale these clusters up and
down on demand. This is a key factor in making big data available to smaller
organizations that can’t afford to own hardware for data jobs that they’ll run only
occasionally. Some major tech companies will continue to run permanent Hadoop
206
|
Chapter 6: Storage

clusters on their hardware. Still, the general trend is that most organizations will
move data processing to the cloud, using an object store as essential storage and
serving layer while processing data on ephemeral clusters.
In object storage, available storage space is also highly scalable, an ideal characteristic
for big data systems. Storage space is constrained by the number of disks the storage
provider owns, but these providers handle exabytes of data. In a cloud environment,
available storage space is virtually limitless; in practice, the primary limit on storage
space for public cloud customers is budget. From a practical standpoint, engineers
can quickly store massive quantities of data for projects without planning months in
advance for necessary servers and disks.
Object stores for data engineering applications
From the standpoint of data engineering, object stores provide excellent performance
for large batch reads and batch writes. This corresponds well to the use case for
massive OLAP systems. A bit of data engineering folklore says that object stores are
not good for updates, but this is only partially true. Object stores are an inferior fit for
transactional workloads with many small updates every second; these use cases are
much better served by transactional databases or block storage systems. Object stores
work well for a low rate of update operations, where each operation updates a large
volume of data.
Object stores are now the gold standard of storage for data lakes. In the early days
of data lakes, write once, read many (WORM) was the operational standard, but this
had more to do with the complexities of managing data versions and files than the
limitations of HDFS and object stores. Since then, systems such as Apache Hudi and
Delta Lake have emerged to manage this complexity, and privacy regulations such
as GDPR and CCPA have made deletion and update capabilities imperative. Update
management for object storage is the central idea behind the data lakehouse concept,
which we introduced in Chapter 3.
Object storage is an ideal repository for unstructured data in any format beyond
these structured data applications. Object storage can house any binary data with no
constraints on type or structure and frequently plays a role in ML pipelines for raw
text, images, video, and audio.
Object lookup
As we mentioned, object stores are key-value stores. What does this mean for engi‐
neers? It’s critical to understand that, unlike file stores, object stores do not utilize a
directory tree to find objects. The object store uses a top-level logical container (a
bucket in S3 and GCS) and references objects by key. A simple example in S3 might
look like this:
S3://oreilly-data-engineering-book/data-example.json
Data Storage Systems
|
207

In this case, S3://oreilly-data-engineering-book/ is the bucket name, and data-
example.json is the key pointing to a particular object. S3 bucket names must be
unique across all of AWS. Keys are unique within a bucket. Although cloud object
stores may appear to support directory tree semantics, no true directory hierarchy
exists. We might store an object with the following full path:
S3://oreilly-data-engineering-book/project-data/11/23/2021/data.txt
On the surface, this looks like subdirectories you might find in a regular file folder
system: project-data, 11, 23, and 2021. Many cloud console interfaces allow users
to view the objects inside a “directory,” and cloud command-line tools often support
Unix-style commands such as ls inside an object store directory. However, behind
the scenes, the object system does not traverse a directory tree to reach the object.
Instead, it simply sees a key (project-data/11/23/2021/data.txt) that happens
to match directory semantics. This might seem like a minor technical detail, but
engineers need to understand that certain “directory”-level operations are costly
in an object store. To run aws ls S3://oreilly-data-engineering-book/project-
data/11/ the object store must filter keys on the key prefix project-data/11/. If the
bucket contains millions of objects, this operation might take some time, even if the
“subdirectory” houses only a few objects.
Object consistency and versioning
As mentioned, object stores don’t support in-place updates or appends as a general
rule. We write a new object under the same key to update an object. When data
engineers utilize updates in data processes, they must be aware of the consistency
model for the object store they’re using. Object stores may be eventually consistent
or strongly consistent. For example, until recently, S3 was eventually consistent; after
a new version of an object was written under the same key, the object store might
sometimes return the old version of the object. The eventual part of eventual consis‐
tency means that after enough time has passed, the storage cluster reaches a state
such that only the latest version of the object will be returned. This contrasts with the
strong consistency model we expect of local disks attached to a server: reading after a
write will return the most recently written data.
It might be desirable to impose strong consistency on an object store for various
reasons, and standard methods are used to achieve this. One approach is to add a
strongly consistent database (e.g., PostgreSQL) to the mix. Writing an object is now a
two-step process:
1. Write the object.
1.
2. Write the returned metadata for the object version to the strongly consistent
2.
database.
208
|
Chapter 6: Storage

The version metadata (an object hash or an object timestamp) can uniquely identify
an object version in conjunction with the object key. To read an object, a reader
undertakes the following steps:
1. Fetch the latest object metadata from the strongly consistent database.
1.
2. Query object metadata using the object key. Read the object data if it matches the
2.
metadata fetched from the consistent database.
3. If the object metadata does not match, repeat step 2 until the latest version of the
3.
object is returned.
A practical implementation has exceptions and edge cases to consider, such as when
the object gets rewritten during this querying process. These steps can be managed
behind an API so that an object reader sees a strongly consistent object store at the
cost of higher latency for object access.
Object versioning is closely related to object consistency. When we rewrite an object
under an existing key in an object store, we’re essentially writing a brand-new object,
setting references from the existing key to the object, and deleting the old object
references. Updating all references across the cluster takes time, hence the potential
for stale reads. Eventually, the storage cluster garbage collector deallocates the space
dedicated to the dereferenced data, recycling disk capacity for use by new objects.
With object versioning turned on, we add additional metadata to the object that
stipulates a version. While the default key reference gets updated to point to the new
object, we retain other pointers to previous versions. We also maintain a version list
so that clients can get a list of all object versions, and then pull a specific version.
Because old versions of the object are still referenced, they aren’t cleaned up by the
garbage collector.
If we reference an object with a version, the consistency issue with some object
storage systems disappears: the key and version metadata together form a unique
reference to a particular, immutable data object. We will always get the same object
back when we use this pair, provided that we haven’t deleted it. The consistency issue
still exists when a client requests the “default” or “latest” version of an object.
The principal overhead that engineers need to consider with object versioning is
the cost of storage. Historical versions of objects generally have the same associated
storage costs as current versions. Object version costs may be nearly insignificant or
catastrophically expensive, depending on various factors. The data size is an issue, as
is update frequency; more object versions can lead to significantly larger data size.
Keep in mind that we’re talking about brute-force object versioning. Object storage
systems generally store full object data for each version, not differential snapshots.
Data Storage Systems
|
209

Engineers also have the option of deploying storage lifecycle policies. Lifecycle poli‐
cies allow automatic deletion of old object versions when certain conditions are met
(e.g., when an object version reaches a certain age or many newer versions exist).
Cloud vendors also offer various archival data tiers at heavily discounted prices, and
the archival process can be managed using lifecycle policies.
Storage classes and tiers
Cloud vendors now offer storage classes that discount data storage pricing in
exchange for reduced access or reduced durability. We use the term reduced access
here because many of these storage tiers still make data highly available, but with high
retrieval costs in exchange for reduced storage costs.
Let’s look at a couple of examples in S3 since Amazon is a benchmark for cloud ser‐
vice standards. The S3 Standard-Infrequent Access storage class discounts monthly
storage costs for increased data retrieval costs. (See “A Brief Detour on Cloud
Economics” on page 125 for a theoretical discussion of the economics of cloud
storage tiers.) Amazon also offers the Amazon S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access tier,
replicating only to a single zone. Projected availability drops from 99.9% to 99.5% to
account for the possibility of a zonal outage. Amazon still claims extremely high data
durability, with the caveat that data will be lost if an availability zone is destroyed.
Further down the tiers of reduced access are the archival tiers in S3 Glacier. S3
Glacier promises a dramatic reduction in long-term storage costs for much higher
access costs. Users have various retrieval speed options, from minutes to hours, with
higher retrieval costs for faster access. For example, at the time of this writing, S3
Glacier Deep Archive discounts storage costs even further; Amazon advertises that
storage costs start at $1 per terabyte per month. In exchange, data restoration takes 12
hours. In addition, this storage class is designed for data that will be stored 7–10 years
and be accessed only one to two times per year.
Be aware of how you plan to utilize archival storage, as it’s easy to get into and often
costly to access data, especially if you need it more often than expected. See Chapter 4
for a more extensive discussion of archival storage economics.
Object store–backed filesystems
Object store synchronization solutions have become increasingly popular. Tools like
s3fs and Amazon S3 File Gateway allow users to mount an S3 bucket as local storage.
Users of these tools should be aware of the characteristics of writes to the filesystem
and how these will interact with the characteristics and pricing of object storage.
File Gateway, for example, handles changes to files fairly efficiently by combining
portions of objects into a new object using the advanced capabilities of S3. However,
high-speed transactional writing will overwhelm the update capabilities of an object
210
|
Chapter 6: Storage

