# The Data Lakehouse

Paginas: 241-241

3 James Dixon, “Data Lakes Revisited,” James Dixon’s Blog, September 25, 2014, https://oreil.ly/FH25v.
In practice, cloud data warehouses are often used to organize data into a data lake,
a storage area for massive amounts of unprocessed raw data, as originally conceived
by James Dixon.3 Cloud data warehouses can handle massive amounts of raw text
and complex JSON documents. The limitation is that cloud data warehouses cannot
handle truly unstructured data, such as images, video, or audio, unlike a true data
lake. Cloud data warehouses can be coupled with object storage to provide a complete
data-lake solution.
The Data Lake
The data lake was originally conceived as a massive store where data was retained in
raw, unprocessed form. Initially, data lakes were built primarily on Hadoop systems,
where cheap storage allowed for retention of massive amounts of data without the
cost overhead of a proprietary MPP system.
The last five years have seen two major developments in the evolution of data
lake storage. First, a major migration toward separation of compute and storage has
occurred. In practice, this means a move away from Hadoop toward cloud object
storage for long-term retention of data. Second, data engineers discovered that much
of the functionality offered by MPP systems (schema management; update, merge
and delete capabilities) and initially dismissed in the rush to data lakes was, in fact,
extremely useful. This led to the notion of the data lakehouse.
The Data Lakehouse
The data lakehouse is an architecture that combines aspects of the data warehouse
and the data lake. As it is generally conceived, the lakehouse stores data in object
storage just like a lake. However, the lakehouse adds to this arrangement features
designed to streamline data management and create an engineering experience simi‐
lar to a data warehouse. This means robust table and schema support and features
for managing incremental updates and deletes. Lakehouses typically also support
table history and rollback; this is accomplished by retaining old versions of files and
metadata.
A lakehouse system is a metadata and file-management layer deployed with data
management and transformation tools. Databricks has heavily promoted the lake‐
house concept with Delta Lake, an open source storage management system.
We would be remiss not to point out that the architecture of the data lakehouse
is similar to the architecture used by various commercial data platforms, including
BigQuery and Snowflake. These systems store data in object storage and provide
216
|
Chapter 6: Storage

