# Total Opportunity Cost of Ownership

Paginas: 144-144

1 For more details, see “Total Opportunity Cost of Ownership” by Joseph Reis in 97 Things Every Data Engineer
Should Know (O’Reilly).
to millions of dollars or more—would be treated as assets and slowly depreciate over
time. From a budget perspective, capital was required to fund the entire purchase.
This is capex, a significant capital outlay with a long-term plan to achieve a positive
ROI on the effort and expense put forth.
Operational expenses, also known as opex, are the opposite of capex in certain
respects. Opex is gradual and spread out over time. Whereas capex is long-term
focused, opex is short-term. Opex can be pay-as-you-go or similar and allows a lot of
flexibility. Opex is closer to a direct cost, making it easier to attribute to a data project.
Until recently, opex wasn’t an option for large data projects. Data systems often
required multimillion-dollar contracts. This has changed with the advent of the
cloud, as data platform services allow engineers to pay on a consumption-based
model. In general, opex allows for a far greater ability for engineering teams to
choose their software and hardware. Cloud-based services let data engineers iterate
quickly with various software and technology configurations, often inexpensively.
Data engineers need to be pragmatic about flexibility. The data landscape is changing
too quickly to invest in long-term hardware that inevitably goes stale, can’t easily
scale, and potentially hampers a data engineer’s flexibility to try new things. Given the
upside for flexibility and low initial costs, we urge data engineers to take an opex-first
approach centered on the cloud and flexible, pay-as-you-go technologies.
Total Opportunity Cost of Ownership
Any choice inherently excludes other possibilities. Total opportunity cost of ownership
(TOCO) is the cost of lost opportunities that we incur in choosing a technology,
an architecture, or a process.1 Note that ownership in this setting doesn’t require
long-term purchases of hardware or licenses. Even in a cloud environment, we
effectively own a technology, a stack, or a pipeline once it becomes a core part of
our production data processes and is difficult to move away from. Data engineers
often fail to evaluate TOCO when undertaking a new project; in our opinion, this is a
massive blind spot.
If you choose data stack A, you’ve chosen the benefits of data stack A over all other
options, effectively excluding data stacks B, C, and D. You’re committed to data stack
A and everything it entails—the team to support it, training, setup, and maintenance.
What happens if data stack A was a poor choice? What happens when data stack A
becomes obsolete? Can you still move to other data stacks?
How quickly and cheaply can you move to something newer and better? This is a
critical question in the data space, where new technologies and products seem to
Cost Optimization and Business Value
|
119

