# Orchestration

Paginas: 89-90

9 Ternary Data, “An Introduction to Dagster: The Orchestrator for the Full Data Lifecycle - UDEM June 2021,”
YouTube video, 1:09:40, https://oreil.ly/HyGMh.
not automation-first. A recent movement has arisen to adopt automation best practi‐
ces across the data engineering lifecycle. Tools like Airflow have paved the way for a
new generation of automation and data management tools. The general practices we
describe for DataOps are aspirational, and we suggest companies try to adopt them to
the fullest extent possible, given the tools and knowledge available today.
Data Architecture
A data architecture reflects the current and future state of data systems that support
an organization’s long-term data needs and strategy. Because an organization’s data
requirements will likely change rapidly, and new tools and practices seem to arrive on
a near-daily basis, data engineers must understand good data architecture. Chapter 3
covers data architecture in depth, but we want to highlight here that data architecture
is an undercurrent of the data engineering lifecycle.
A data engineer should first understand the needs of the business and gather require‐
ments for new use cases. Next, a data engineer needs to translate those requirements
to design new ways to capture and serve data, balanced for cost and operational
simplicity. This means knowing the trade-offs with design patterns, technologies, and
tools in source systems, ingestion, storage, transformation, and serving data.
This doesn’t imply that a data engineer is a data architect, as these are typically two
separate roles. If a data engineer works alongside a data architect, the data engineer
should be able to deliver on the data architect’s designs and provide architectural
feedback.
Orchestration
We think that orchestration matters because we view it as really the center of gravity of
both the data platform as well as the data lifecycle, the software development lifecycle
as it comes to data.
—Nick Schrock, founder of Elementl9
Orchestration is not only a central DataOps process, but also a critical part of the
engineering and deployment flow for data jobs. So, what is orchestration?
Orchestration is the process of coordinating many jobs to run as quickly and effi‐
ciently as possible on a scheduled cadence. For instance, people often refer to
orchestration tools like Apache Airflow as schedulers. This isn’t quite accurate. A
pure scheduler, such as cron, is aware only of time; an orchestration engine builds
in metadata on job dependencies, generally in the form of a directed acyclic graph
64
|
Chapter 2: The Data Engineering Lifecycle

(DAG). The DAG can be run once or scheduled to run at a fixed interval of daily,
weekly, every hour, every five minutes, etc.
As we discuss orchestration throughout this book, we assume that an orchestration
system stays online with high availability. This allows the orchestration system to
sense and monitor constantly without human intervention and run new jobs anytime
they are deployed. An orchestration system monitors jobs that it manages and kicks
off new tasks as internal DAG dependencies are completed. It can also monitor
external systems and tools to watch for data to arrive and criteria to be met. When
certain conditions go out of bounds, the system also sets error conditions and sends
alerts through email or other channels. You might set an expected completion time of
10 a.m. for overnight daily data pipelines. If jobs are not done by this time, alerts go
out to data engineers and consumers.
Orchestration systems also build job history capabilities, visualization, and alerting.
Advanced orchestration engines can backfill new DAGs or individual tasks as they
are added to a DAG. They also support dependencies over a time range. For example,
a monthly reporting job might check that an ETL job has been completed for the full
month before starting.
Orchestration has long been a key capability for data processing but was not often
top of mind nor accessible to anyone except the largest companies. Enterprises used
various tools to manage job flows, but these were expensive, out of reach of small
startups, and generally not extensible. Apache Oozie was extremely popular in the
2010s, but it was designed to work within a Hadoop cluster and was difficult to use in
a more heterogeneous environment. Facebook developed Dataswarm for internal use
in the late 2000s; this inspired popular tools such as Airflow, introduced by Airbnb in
2014.
Airflow was open source from its inception and was widely adopted. It was written in
Python, making it highly extensible to almost any use case imaginable. While many
other interesting open source orchestration projects exist, such as Luigi and Conduc‐
tor, Airflow is arguably the mindshare leader for the time being. Airflow arrived just
as data processing was becoming more abstract and accessible, and engineers were
increasingly interested in coordinating complex flows across multiple processors and
storage systems, especially in cloud environments.
At this writing, several nascent open source projects aim to mimic the best elements
of Airflow’s core design while improving on it in key areas. Some of the most inter‐
esting examples are Prefect and Dagster, which aim to improve the portability and
testability of DAGs to allow engineers to move from local development to production
more easily. Argo is an orchestration engine built around Kubernetes primitives;
Metaflow is an open source project out of Netflix that aims to improve data science
orchestration.
Major Undercurrents Across the Data Engineering Lifecycle
|
65

