# Conceptual, Logical, and Physical Data Models

Paginas: 314-314

Our discussion focuses mainly on batch data modeling since that’s where most
data modeling techniques arose. We will also look at some approaches to modeling
streaming data and general considerations for modeling.
Conceptual, Logical, and Physical Data Models
When modeling data, the idea is to move from abstract modeling concepts to con‐
crete implementation. Along this continuum (Figure 8-12), three main data models
are conceptual, logical, and physical. These models form the basis for the various
modeling techniques we describe in this chapter:
Conceptual
Contains business logic and rules and describes the system’s data, such as sche‐
mas, tables, and fields (names and types). When creating a conceptual model,
it’s often helpful to visualize it in an entity-relationship (ER) diagram, which
is a standard tool for visualizing the relationships among various entities in
your data (orders, customers, products, etc.). For example, an ER diagram might
encode the connections among customer ID, customer name, customer address,
and customer orders. Visualizing entity relationships is highly recommended for
designing a coherent conceptual data model.
Logical
Details how the conceptual model will be implemented in practice by adding
significantly more detail. For example, we would add information on the types of
customer ID, customer names, and custom addresses. In addition, we would map
out primary and foreign keys.
Physical
Defines how the logical model will be implemented in a database system. We
would add specific databases, schemas, and tables to our logical model, including
configuration details.
Figure 8-12. The continuum of data models: conceptual, logical, and physical
Successful data modeling involves business stakeholders at the inception of the pro‐
cess. Engineers need to obtain definitions and business goals for the data. Modeling
data should be a full-contact sport whose goal is to provide the business with quality
data for actionable insights and intelligent automation. This is a practice that every‐
one must continuously participate in.
Data Modeling
|
289

