# Data Mesh

Paginas: 134-134

24 Zhamak Dehghani, “Data Mesh Principles and Logical Architecture,” MartinFowler.com, December 3, 2020,
https://oreil.ly/ezWE7.
25 Zhamak Dehghani, “How to Move Beyond a Monolithic Data Lake to a Distributed Data Mesh,” Martin‐
Fowler.com, May 20, 2019, https://oreil.ly/SqMe8.
26 Zhamak Dehghani, “Data Mesh Principles and Logical Architecture.”
Scratching the surface of the IoT
IoT scenarios are incredibly complex, and IoT architecture and systems are also less
familiar to data engineers who may have spent their careers working with business
data. We hope that this introduction will encourage interested data engineers to learn
more about this fascinating and rapidly evolving specialization.
Data Mesh
The data mesh is a recent response to sprawling monolithic data platforms, such as
centralized data lakes and data warehouses, and “the great divide of data,” wherein the
landscape is divided between operational data and analytical data.24 The data mesh
attempts to invert the challenges of centralized data architecture, taking the concepts
of domain-driven design (commonly used in software architectures) and applying
them to data architecture. Because the data mesh has captured much recent attention,
you should be aware of it.
A big part of the data mesh is decentralization, as Zhamak Dehghani noted in her
groundbreaking article on the topic:25
In order to decentralize the monolithic data platform, we need to reverse how we think
about data, its locality, and ownership. Instead of flowing the data from domains into
a centrally owned data lake or platform, domains need to host and serve their domain
datasets in an easily consumable way.
Dehghani later identified four key components of the data mesh:26
• Domain-oriented decentralized data ownership and architecture
•
• Data as a product
•
• Self-serve data infrastructure as a platform
•
• Federated computational governance
•
Figure 3-18 shows a simplified version of a data mesh architecture. You can learn
more about data mesh in Dehghani’s book Data Mesh (O’Reilly).
Examples and Types of Data Architecture
|
109

