# Lambda Architecture

Paginas: 129-129

Key outcomes of the modern data stack are self-service (analytics and pipelines),
agile data management, and using open source tools or simple proprietary tools with
clear pricing structures. Community is a central aspect of the modern data stack as
well. Unlike products of the past that had releases and roadmaps largely hidden from
users, projects and companies operating in the modern data stack space typically
have strong user bases and active communities that participate in the development by
using the product early, suggesting features, and submitting pull requests to improve
the code.
Regardless of where “modern” goes (we share our ideas in Chapter 11), we think
the key concept of plug-and-play modularity with easy-to-understand pricing and
implementation is the way of the future. Especially in analytics engineering, the
modern data stack is and will continue to be the default choice of data architecture.
Throughout the book, the architecture we reference contains pieces of the modern
data stack, such as cloud-based and plug-and-play modular components.
Lambda Architecture
In the “old days” (the early to mid-2010s), the popularity of working with streaming
data exploded with the emergence of Kafka as a highly scalable message queue
and frameworks such as Apache Storm and Samza for streaming/real-time analyt‐
ics. These technologies allowed companies to perform new types of analytics and
modeling on large amounts of data, user aggregation and ranking, and product
recommendations. Data engineers needed to figure out how to reconcile batch and
streaming data into a single architecture. The Lambda architecture was one of the
early popular responses to this problem.
In a Lambda architecture (Figure 3-14), you have systems operating independently of
each other—batch, streaming, and serving. The source system is ideally immutable
and append-only, sending data to two destinations for processing: stream and batch.
In-stream processing intends to serve the data with the lowest possible latency in a
“speed” layer, usually a NoSQL database. In the batch layer, data is processed and
transformed in a system such as a data warehouse, creating precomputed and aggre‐
gated views of the data. The serving layer provides a combined view by aggregating
query results from the two layers.
Figure 3-14. Lambda architecture
104
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

