# Enterprise Architecture Defined

Paginas: 97-99

1 The Open Group, TOGAF Version 9.1, https://oreil.ly/A1H67.
2 Gartner Glossary, s.v. “Enterprise Architecture (EA),” https://oreil.ly/SWwQF.
Enterprise Architecture Defined
Enterprise architecture has many subsets, including business, technical, application,
and data (Figure 3-1). As such, many frameworks and resources are devoted to
enterprise architecture. In truth, architecture is a surprisingly controversial topic.
Figure 3-1. Data architecture is a subset of enterprise architecture
The term enterprise gets mixed reactions. It brings to mind sterile corporate offi‐
ces, command-and-control/waterfall planning, stagnant business cultures, and empty
catchphrases. Even so, we can learn some things here.
Before we define and describe enterprise architecture, let’s unpack this term. Let’s
look at how enterprise architecture is defined by some significant thought leaders:
TOGAF, Gartner, and EABOK.
TOGAF’s definition
TOGAF is The Open Group Architecture Framework, a standard of The Open Group.
It’s touted as the most widely used architecture framework today. Here’s the TOGAF
definition:1
The term “enterprise” in the context of “enterprise architecture” can denote an entire
enterprise—encompassing all of its information and technology services, processes,
and infrastructure—or a specific domain within the enterprise. In both cases, the
architecture crosses multiple systems, and multiple functional groups within the
enterprise.
Gartner’s definition
Gartner is a global research and advisory company that produces research articles
and reports on trends related to enterprises. Among other things, it is responsible for
the (in)famous Gartner Hype Cycle. Gartner’s definition is as follows:2
Enterprise architecture (EA) is a discipline for proactively and holistically leading
enterprise responses to disruptive forces by identifying and analyzing the execution of
change toward desired business vision and outcomes. EA delivers value by presenting
72
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

3 EABOK Consortium website, https://eabok.org.
4 Jeff Haden, “Amazon Founder Jeff Bezos: This Is How Successful People Make Such Smart Decisions,” Inc.,
December 3, 2018, https://oreil.ly/QwIm0.
business and IT leaders with signature-ready recommendations for adjusting policies
and projects to achieve targeted business outcomes that capitalize on relevant business
disruptions.
EABOK’s definition
EABOK is the Enterprise Architecture Book of Knowledge, an enterprise architecture
reference produced by the MITRE Corporation. EABOK was released as an incom‐
plete draft in 2004 and has not been updated since. Though seemingly obsolete,
EABOK is frequently referenced in descriptions of enterprise architecture; we found
many of its ideas helpful while writing this book. Here’s the EABOK definition:3
Enterprise Architecture (EA) is an organizational model; an abstract representation of
an Enterprise that aligns strategy, operations, and technology to create a roadmap for
success.
Our definition
We extract a few common threads in these definitions of enterprise architecture:
change, alignment, organization, opportunities, problem-solving, and migration.
Here is our definition of enterprise architecture, one that we feel is more relevant
to today’s fast-moving data landscape:
Enterprise architecture is the design of systems to support change in the enterprise,
achieved by flexible and reversible decisions reached through careful evaluation of
trade-offs.
Here, we touch on some key areas we’ll return to throughout the book: flexible and
reversible decisions, change management, and evaluation of trade-offs. We discuss
each theme at length in this section and then make the definition more concrete in
the latter part of the chapter by giving various examples of data architecture.
Flexible and reversible decisions are essential for two reasons. First, the world is
constantly changing, and predicting the future is impossible. Reversible decisions
allow you to adjust course as the world changes and you gather new information.
Second, there is a natural tendency toward enterprise ossification as organizations
grow. Adopting a culture of reversible decisions helps overcome this tendency by
reducing the risk attached to a decision.
Jeff Bezos is credited with the idea of one-way and two-way doors.4 A one-way door
is a decision that is almost impossible to reverse. For example, Amazon could have
What Is Data Architecture?
|
73

decided to sell AWS or shut it down. It would be nearly impossible for Amazon to
rebuild a public cloud with the same market position after such an action.
On the other hand, a two-way door is an easily reversible decision: you walk through
and proceed if you like what you see in the room or step back through the door if
you don’t. Amazon might decide to require the use of DynamoDB for a new micro‐
services database. If this policy doesn’t work, Amazon has the option of reversing it
and refactoring some services to use other databases. Since the stakes attached to each
reversible decision (two-way door) are low, organizations can make more decisions,
iterating, improving, and collecting data rapidly.
Change management is closely related to reversible decisions and is a central theme
of enterprise architecture frameworks. Even with an emphasis on reversible decisions,
enterprises often need to undertake large initiatives. These are ideally broken into
smaller changes, each one a reversible decision in itself. Returning to Amazon,
we note a five-year gap (2007 to 2012) from the publication of a paper on the
DynamoDB concept to Werner Vogels’s announcement of the DynamoDB service on
AWS. Behind the scenes, teams took numerous small actions to make DynamoDB a
concrete reality for AWS customers. Managing such small actions is at the heart of
change management.
Architects are not simply mapping out IT processes and vaguely looking toward a
distant, utopian future; they actively solve business problems and create new oppor‐
tunities. Technical solutions exist not for their own sake but in support of business
goals. Architects identify problems in the current state (poor data quality, scalability
limits, money-losing lines of business), define desired future states (agile data-quality
improvement, scalable cloud data solutions, improved business processes), and real‐
ize initiatives through execution of small, concrete steps. It bears repeating:
Technical solutions exist not for their own sake but in support of business goals.
We found significant inspiration in Fundamentals of Software Architecture by Mark
Richards and Neal Ford (O’Reilly). They emphasize that trade-offs are inevitable and
ubiquitous in the engineering space. Sometimes the relatively fluid nature of software
and data leads us to believe that we are freed from the constraints that engineers face
in the hard, cold physical world. Indeed, this is partially true; patching a software
bug is much easier than redesigning and replacing an airplane wing. However, digi‐
tal systems are ultimately constrained by physical limits such as latency, reliability,
density, and energy consumption. Engineers also confront various nonphysical limits,
such as characteristics of programming languages and frameworks, and practical
constraints in managing complexity, budgets, etc. Magical thinking culminates in
poor engineering. Data engineers must account for trade-offs at every step to design
an optimal system while minimizing high-interest technical debt.
74
|
Chapter 3: Designing Good Data Architecture

