# The Fusion of Data with Applications

Paginas: 412-412

bottleneck at the head of your data pipeline? We’ll eventually look at batch ingestion
the same way we now look at dial-up modems.
In conjunction with the rise of streams, we expect a back-to-the-future moment for
data transformations. We’ll shift away from ELT—in database transformations—to
something that looks more like ETL. We provisionally refer to this as stream, trans‐
form, and load (STL). In a streaming context, extraction is an ongoing, continuous
process. Of course, batch transformations won’t entirely go away. Batch will still
be very useful for model training, quarterly reporting, and more. But streaming
transformation will become the norm.
While the data warehouse and data lake are great for housing large amounts of data
and performing ad hoc queries, they are not so well optimized for low-latency data
ingestion or queries on rapidly moving data. The live data stack will be powered by
OLAP databases that are purpose-built for streaming. Today, databases like Druid,
ClickHouse, Rockset, and Firebolt are leading the way in powering the backend of
the next generation of data applications. We expect that streaming technologies will
continue to evolve rapidly and that new technologies will proliferate.
Another area we think is ripe for disruption is data modeling, where there hasn’t
been serious innovation since the early 2000s. The traditional batch-oriented data
modeling techniques you learned about in Chapter 8 aren’t suited for streaming data.
New data-modeling techniques will occur not within the data warehouse but in the
systems that generate the data. We expect data modeling will involve some notion
of an upstream definitions layer—including semantics, metrics, lineage, and data
definitions (see Chapter 9)—beginning where data is generated in the application.
Modeling will also happen at every stage as data flows and evolves through the full
lifecycle.
The Fusion of Data with Applications
We expect the next revolution will be the fusion of the application and data layers.
Right now, applications sit in one area, and the MDS sits in another. To make
matters worse, data is created with no regard for how it will be used for analytics.
Consequently, lots of duct tape is needed to make systems talk with one another. This
patchwork, siloed setup is awkward and ungainly.
Soon, application stacks will be data stacks, and vice versa. Applications will integrate
real-time automation and decision making, powered by the streaming pipelines and
ML. The data engineering lifecycle won’t necessarily change, but the time between
stages of the lifecycle will drastically shorten. A lot of innovation will occur in new
technologies and practices that will improve the experience of engineering the live
data stack. Pay attention to emerging database technologies designed to address the
mix of OLTP and OLAP use cases; feature stores may also play a similar role for ML
use cases.
Moving Beyond the Modern Data Stack, Toward the Live Data Stack
|
387

