# Domains and Services

Paginas: 112-112

18 “FinOps Foundation Soars to 300 Members and Introduces New Partner Tiers for Cloud Service Providers
and Vendors,” Business Wire, June 17, 2019, https://oreil.ly/XcwYO.
19 Eric Evans, Domain-Driven Design Reference: Definitions and Pattern Summaries (March 2015),
https://oreil.ly/pQ9oq.
As of this writing, FinOps is a recently formalized practice. The FinOps Foundation
was started only in 2019.18 However, we highly recommend you start thinking about
FinOps early, before you encounter high cloud bills. Start your journey with the
FinOps Foundation and O’Reilly’s Cloud FinOps. We also suggest that data engineers
involve themselves in the community process of creating FinOps practices for data
engineering— in such a new practice area, a good deal of territory is yet to be mapped
out.
Now that you have a high-level understanding of good data architecture principles,
let’s dive a bit deeper into the major concepts you’ll need to design and build good
data architecture.
Major Architecture Concepts
If you follow the current trends in data, it seems like new types of data tools and
architectures are arriving on the scene every week. Amidst this flurry of activity, we
must not lose sight of the main goal of all of these architectures: to take data and
transform it into something useful for downstream consumption.
Domains and Services
Domain: A sphere of knowledge, influence, or activity. The subject area to which the
user applies a program is the domain of the software.
—Eric Evans19
Before diving into the components of the architecture, let’s briefly cover two terms
you’ll see come up very often: domain and services. A domain is the real-world
subject area for which you’re architecting. A service is a set of functionality whose
goal is to accomplish a task. For example, you might have a sales order-processing
service whose task is to process orders as they are created. The sales order-processing
service’s only job is to process orders; it doesn’t provide other functionality, such as
inventory management or updating user profiles.
A domain can contain multiple services. For example, you might have a sales domain
with three services: orders, invoicing, and products. Each service has particular tasks
that support the sales domain. Other domains may also share services (Figure 3-3).
In this case, the accounting domain is responsible for basic accounting functions:
invoicing, payroll, and accounts receivable (AR). Notice the accounting domain
shares the invoice service with the sales domain since a sale generates an invoice,
Major Architecture Concepts
|
87

