# Application Databases (OLTP Systems)

Paginas: 182-183

In addition, files are a universal medium of data exchange. As much as data engineers
wish that they could get data programmatically, much of the world still sends and
receives files. For example, if you’re getting data from a government agency, there’s an
excellent chance you’ll download the data as an Excel or CSV file or receive the file in
an email.
The main types of source file formats you’ll run into as a data engineer—files that
originate either manually or as an output from a source system process—are Excel,
CSV, TXT, JSON, and XML. These files have their quirks and can be structured
(Excel, CSV), semistructured (JSON, XML, CSV), or unstructured (TXT, CSV).
Although you’ll use certain formats heavily as a data engineer (such as Parquet, ORC,
and Avro), we’ll cover these later and put the spotlight here on source system files.
Chapter 6 covers the technical details of files.
APIs
Application programming interfaces (APIs) are a standard way of exchanging data
between systems. In theory, APIs simplify the data ingestion task for data engineers.
In practice, many APIs still expose a good deal of data complexity for engineers
to manage. Even with the rise of various services and frameworks, and services
for automating API data ingestion, data engineers must often invest a good deal of
energy into maintaining custom API connections. We discuss APIs in greater detail
later in this chapter.
Application Databases (OLTP Systems)
An application database stores the state of an application. A standard example is a
database that stores account balances for bank accounts. As customer transactions
and payments happen, the application updates bank account balances.
Typically, an application database is an online transaction processing (OLTP) system—
a database that reads and writes individual data records at a high rate. OLTP systems
are often referred to as transactional databases, but this does not necessarily imply
that the system in question supports atomic transactions.
More generally, OLTP databases support low latency and high concurrency. An
RDBMS database can select or update a row in less than a millisecond (not account‐
ing for network latency) and handle thousands of reads and writes per second. A
document database cluster can manage even higher document commit rates at the
expense of potential inconsistency. Some graph databases can also handle transac‐
tional use cases.
Fundamentally, OLTP databases work well as application backends when thousands
or even millions of users might be interacting with the application simultaneously,
Source Systems: Main Ideas
|
157

updating and writing data concurrently. OLTP systems are less suited to use cases
driven by analytics at scale, where a single query must scan a vast amount of data.
ACID
Support for atomic transactions is one of a critical set of database characteristics
known together as ACID (as you may recall from Chapter 3, this stands for atomicity,
consistency, isolation, durability). Consistency means that any database read will return
the last written version of the retrieved item. Isolation entails that if two updates are
in flight concurrently for the same thing, the end database state will be consistent
with the sequential execution of these updates in the order they were submitted.
Durability indicates that committed data will never be lost, even in the event of power
loss.
Note that ACID characteristics are not required to support application backends,
and relaxing these constraints can be a considerable boon to performance and scale.
However, ACID characteristics guarantee that the database will maintain a consistent
picture of the world, dramatically simplifying the app developer’s task.
All engineers (data or otherwise) must understand operating with and without ACID.
For instance, to improve performance, some distributed databases use relaxed consis‐
tency constraints, such as eventual consistency, to improve performance. Understand‐
ing the consistency model you’re working with helps you prevent disasters.
Atomic transactions
An atomic transaction is a set of several changes that are committed as a unit. In
the example in Figure 5-2, a traditional banking application running on an RDBMS
executes a SQL statement that checks two account balances, one in Account A (the
source) and another in Account B (the destination). Money is then moved from
Account A to Account B if sufficient funds are in Account A. The entire transaction
should run with updates to both account balances or fail without updating either
account balance. That is, the whole operation should happen as a transaction.
Figure 5-2. Example of an atomic transaction: a bank account transfer using OLTP
158
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

