# Data Catalog

Paginas: 243-243

Big Ideas and Trends in Storage
In this section, we’ll discuss some big ideas in storage—key considerations that you
need to keep in mind as you build out your storage architecture. Many of these
considerations are part of larger trends. For example, data catalogs fit under the
trend toward “enterprisey” data engineering and data management. Separation of
compute from storage is now largely an accomplished fact in cloud data systems.
And data sharing is an increasingly important consideration as businesses adopt data
technology.
Data Catalog
A data catalog is a centralized metadata store for all data across an organization.
Strictly speaking, a data catalog is not a top-level data storage abstraction, but it
integrates with various systems and abstractions. Data catalogs typically work across
operational and analytics data sources, integrate data lineage and presentation of data
relationships, and allow user editing of data descriptions.
Data catalogs are often used to provide a central place where people can view their
data, queries, and data storage. As a data engineer, you’ll likely be responsible for
setting up and maintaining the various data integrations of data pipeline and storage
systems that will integrate with the data catalog and the integrity of the data catalog
itself.
Catalog application integration
Ideally, data applications are designed to integrate with catalog APIs to handle their
metadata and updates directly. As catalogs are more widely used in an organization, it
becomes easier to approach this ideal.
Automated scanning
In practice, cataloging systems typically need to rely on an automated scanning layer
that collects metadata from various systems such as data lakes, data warehouses, and
operational databases. Data catalogs can collect existing metadata and may also use
scanning tools to infer metadata such as key relationships or the presence of sensitive
data.
Data portal and social layer
Data catalogs also typically provide a human access layer through a web interface,
where users can search for data and view data relationships. Data catalogs can be
enhanced with a social layer offering Wiki functionality. This allows users to provide
information on their datasets, request information from other users, and post updates
as they become available.
218
|
Chapter 6: Storage

