# Evolution of the Data Engineer

Paginas: 31-35

Evolution of the Data Engineer
History doesn’t repeat itself, but it rhymes.
—A famous adage often attributed to Mark Twain
Understanding data engineering today and tomorrow requires a context of how the
field evolved. This section is not a history lesson, but looking at the past is invaluable
in understanding where we are today and where things are going. A common theme
constantly reappears: what’s old is new again.
The early days: 1980 to 2000, from data warehousing to the web
The birth of the data engineer arguably has its roots in data warehousing, dating as
far back as the 1970s, with the business data warehouse taking shape in the 1980s
and Bill Inmon officially coining the term data warehouse in 1989. After engineers
at IBM developed the relational database and Structured Query Language (SQL),
Oracle popularized the technology. As nascent data systems grew, businesses needed
dedicated tools and data pipelines for reporting and business intelligence (BI). To
help people correctly model their business logic in the data warehouse, Ralph Kimball
and Inmon developed their respective eponymous data-modeling techniques and
approaches, which are still widely used today.
Data warehousing ushered in the first age of scalable analytics, with new massively
parallel processing (MPP) databases that use multiple processors to crunch large
amounts of data coming on the market and supporting unprecedented volumes
of data. Roles such as BI engineer, ETL developer, and data warehouse engineer
addressed the various needs of the data warehouse. Data warehouse and BI engineer‐
ing were a precursor to today’s data engineering and still play a central role in the
discipline.
The internet went mainstream around the mid-1990s, creating a whole new genera‐
tion of web-first companies such as AOL, Yahoo, and Amazon. The dot-com boom
spawned a ton of activity in web applications and the backend systems to support
them—servers, databases, and storage. Much of the infrastructure was expensive,
monolithic, and heavily licensed. The vendors selling these backend systems likely
didn’t foresee the sheer scale of the data that web applications would produce.
The early 2000s: The birth of contemporary data engineering
Fast-forward to the early 2000s, when the dot-com boom of the late ’90s went bust,
leaving behind a tiny cluster of survivors. Some of these companies, such as Yahoo,
Google, and Amazon, would grow into powerhouse tech companies. Initially, these
companies continued to rely on the traditional monolithic, relational databases and
data warehouses of the 1990s, pushing these systems to the limit. As these systems
6
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

6 Cade Metz, “How Yahoo Spawned Hadoop, the Future of Big Data,” Wired, October 18, 2011,
https://oreil.ly/iaD9G.
7 Ron Miller, “How AWS Came to Be,” TechCrunch, July 2, 2016, https://oreil.ly/VJehv.
buckled, updated approaches were needed to handle data growth. The new genera‐
tion of the systems must be cost-effective, scalable, available, and reliable.
Coinciding with the explosion of data, commodity hardware—such as servers, RAM,
disks, and flash drives—also became cheap and ubiquitous. Several innovations
allowed distributed computation and storage on massive computing clusters at a
vast scale. These innovations started decentralizing and breaking apart traditionally
monolithic services. The “big data” era had begun.
The Oxford English Dictionary defines big data as “extremely large data sets that may
be analyzed computationally to reveal patterns, trends, and associations, especially
relating to human behavior and interactions.” Another famous and succinct descrip‐
tion of big data is the three Vs of data: velocity, variety, and volume.
In 2003, Google published a paper on the Google File System, and shortly after
that, in 2004, a paper on MapReduce, an ultra-scalable data-processing paradigm.
In truth, big data has earlier antecedents in MPP data warehouses and data manage‐
ment for experimental physics projects, but Google’s publications constituted a “big
bang” for data technologies and the cultural roots of data engineering as we know it
today. You’ll learn more about MPP systems and MapReduce in Chapters 3 and 8,
respectively.
The Google papers inspired engineers at Yahoo to develop and later open source
Apache Hadoop in 2006.6 It’s hard to overstate the impact of Hadoop. Software
engineers interested in large-scale data problems were drawn to the possibilities of
this new open source technology ecosystem. As companies of all sizes and types
saw their data grow into many terabytes and even petabytes, the era of the big data
engineer was born.
Around the same time, Amazon had to keep up with its own exploding data needs
and created elastic computing environments (Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, or
EC2), infinitely scalable storage systems (Amazon Simple Storage Service, or S3),
highly scalable NoSQL databases (Amazon DynamoDB), and many other core data
building blocks.7 Amazon elected to offer these services for internal and external
consumption through Amazon Web Services (AWS), becoming the first popular
public cloud. AWS created an ultra-flexible pay-as-you-go resource marketplace by
virtualizing and reselling vast pools of commodity hardware. Instead of purchasing
hardware for a data center, developers could simply rent compute and storage from
AWS.
What Is Data Engineering?
|
7

As AWS became a highly profitable growth engine for Amazon, other public clouds
would soon follow, such as Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, and DigitalOcean. The
public cloud is arguably one of the most significant innovations of the 21st century
and spawned a revolution in the way software and data applications are developed
and deployed.
The early big data tools and public cloud laid the foundation for today’s data ecosys‐
tem. The modern data landscape—and data engineering as we know it now—would
not exist without these innovations.
The 2000s and 2010s: Big data engineering
Open source big data tools in the Hadoop ecosystem rapidly matured and spread
from Silicon Valley to tech-savvy companies worldwide. For the first time, any busi‐
ness had access to the same bleeding-edge data tools used by the top tech companies.
Another revolution occurred with the transition from batch computing to event
streaming, ushering in a new era of big “real-time” data. You’ll learn about batch and
event streaming throughout this book.
Engineers could choose the latest and greatest—Hadoop, Apache Pig, Apache Hive,
Dremel, Apache HBase, Apache Storm, Apache Cassandra, Apache Spark, Presto,
and numerous other new technologies that came on the scene. Traditional enterprise-
oriented and GUI-based data tools suddenly felt outmoded, and code-first engineer‐
ing was in vogue with the ascendance of MapReduce. We (the authors) were around
during this time, and it felt like old dogmas died a sudden death upon the altar of big
data.
The explosion of data tools in the late 2000s and 2010s ushered in the big data
engineer. To effectively use these tools and techniques—namely, the Hadoop eco‐
system including Hadoop, YARN, Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), and
MapReduce—big data engineers had to be proficient in software development and
low-level infrastructure hacking, but with a shifted emphasis. Big data engineers
typically maintained massive clusters of commodity hardware to deliver data at scale.
While they might occasionally submit pull requests to Hadoop core code, they shifted
their focus from core technology development to data delivery.
Big data quickly became a victim of its own success. As a buzzword, big data gained
popularity during the early 2000s through the mid-2010s. Big data captured the
imagination of companies trying to make sense of the ever-growing volumes of data
and the endless barrage of shameless marketing from companies selling big data tools
and services. Because of the immense hype, it was common to see companies using
big data tools for small data problems, sometimes standing up a Hadoop cluster to
process just a few gigabytes. It seemed like everyone wanted in on the big data action.
Dan Ariely tweeted, “Big data is like teenage sex: everyone talks about it, nobody
8
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

really knows how to do it, everyone thinks everyone else is doing it, so everyone
claims they are doing it.”
Figure 1-2 shows a snapshot of Google Trends for the search term “big data” to get an
idea of the rise and fall of big data.
Figure 1-2. Google Trends for “big data” (March 2022)
Despite the term’s popularity, big data has lost steam. What happened? One word:
simplification. Despite the power and sophistication of open source big data tools,
managing them was a lot of work and required constant attention. Often, companies
employed entire teams of big data engineers, costing millions of dollars a year, to
babysit these platforms. Big data engineers often spent excessive time maintaining
complicated tooling and arguably not as much time delivering the business’s insights
and value.
Open source developers, clouds, and third parties started looking for ways to abstract,
simplify, and make big data available without the high administrative overhead and
cost of managing their clusters, and installing, configuring, and upgrading their open
source code. The term big data is essentially a relic to describe a particular time and
approach to handling large amounts of data.
Today, data is moving faster than ever and growing ever larger, but big data process‐
ing has become so accessible that it no longer merits a separate term; every company
aims to solve its data problems, regardless of actual data size. Big data engineers are
now simply data engineers.
What Is Data Engineering?
|
9

8 DataOps is an abbreviation for data operations. We cover this topic in Chapter 2. For more information, read
the DataOps Manifesto.
The 2020s: Engineering for the data lifecycle
At the time of this writing, the data engineering role is evolving rapidly. We expect
this evolution to continue at a rapid clip for the foreseeable future. Whereas data
engineers historically tended to the low-level details of monolithic frameworks such
as Hadoop, Spark, or Informatica, the trend is moving toward decentralized, modu‐
larized, managed, and highly abstracted tools.
Indeed, data tools have proliferated at an astonishing rate (see Figure 1-3). Popular
trends in the early 2020s include the modern data stack, representing a collection
of off-the-shelf open source and third-party products assembled to make analysts’
lives easier. At the same time, data sources and data formats are growing both in
variety and size. Data engineering is increasingly a discipline of interoperation, and
connecting various technologies like LEGO bricks, to serve ultimate business goals.
Figure 1-3. Matt Turck’s Data Landscape in 2012 versus 2021
The data engineer we discuss in this book can be described more precisely as a data
lifecycle engineer. With greater abstraction and simplification, a data lifecycle engineer
is no longer encumbered by the gory details of yesterday’s big data frameworks.
While data engineers maintain skills in low-level data programming and use these as
required, they increasingly find their role focused on things higher in the value chain:
security, data management, DataOps, data architecture, orchestration, and general
data lifecycle management.8
As tools and workflows simplify, we’ve seen a noticeable shift in the attitudes of
data engineers. Instead of focusing on who has the “biggest data,” open source
projects and services are increasingly concerned with managing and governing data,
making it easier to use and discover, and improving its quality. Data engineers are
10
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

