# Direct Database Connection

Paginas: 276-276

some common ways, keep in mind that the universe of data ingestion practices and
technologies is vast and growing daily.
Direct Database Connection
Data can be pulled from databases for ingestion by querying and reading over a net‐
work connection. Most commonly, this connection is made using ODBC or JDBC.
ODBC uses a driver hosted by a client accessing the database to translate commands
issued to the standard ODBC API into commands issued to the database. The data‐
base returns query results over the wire, where the driver receives them and translates
them back into a standard form to be read by the client. For ingestion, the application
utilizing the ODBC driver is an ingestion tool. The ingestion tool may pull data
through many small queries or a single large query.
JDBC is conceptually remarkably similar to ODBC. A Java driver connects to a
remote database and serves as a translation layer between the standard JDBC API
and the native network interface of the target database. It might seem strange to
have a database API dedicated to a single programming language, but there are
strong motivations for this. The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is standard, portable
across hardware architectures and operating systems, and provides the performance
of compiled code through a just-in-time (JIT) compiler. The JVM is an extremely
popular compiling VM for running code in a portable manner.
JDBC provides extraordinary database driver portability. ODBC drivers are shipped
as OS and architecture native binaries; database vendors must maintain versions for
each architecture/OS version that they wish to support. On the other hand, vendors
can ship a single JDBC driver that is compatible with any JVM language (e.g., Java,
Scala, Clojure, or Kotlin) and JVM data framework (i.e., Spark.) JDBC has become so
popular that it is also used as an interface for non-JVM languages such as Python; the
Python ecosystem provides translation tools that allow Python code to talk to a JDBC
driver running on a local JVM.
JDBC and ODBC are used extensively for data ingestion from relational databases,
returning to the general concept of direct database connections. Various enhance‐
ments are used to accelerate data ingestion. Many data frameworks can parallelize
several simultaneous connections and partition queries to pull data in parallel. On the
other hand, nothing is free; using parallel connections also increases the load on the
source database.
JDBC and ODBC were long the gold standards for data ingestion from databases, but
these connection standards are beginning to show their age for many data engineer‐
ing applications. These connection standards struggle with nested data, and they send
data as rows. This means that native nested data must be reencoded as string data to
Ways to Ingest Data
|
251

