# Business Analytics

Paginas: 369-370

This dramatically changes the details and structure of serving. We introduced the
concept of a data mesh in Chapter 3. Now that we’ve covered some general considera‐
tions for serving data, let’s look at the first major area: analytics.
Analytics
The first data-serving use case you’ll likely encounter is analytics, which is discover‐
ing, exploring, identifying, and making visible key insights and patterns within data.
Analytics has many aspects. As a practice, analytics is carried out using statistical
methods, reporting, BI tools, and more. As a data engineer, knowing the various
types and techniques of analytics is key to accomplishing your work. This section
aims to show how you’ll serve data for analytics and presents some points to think
about to help your analysts succeed.
Before you even serve data for analytics, the first thing you need to do (which should
sound familiar after reading the preceding section) is identify the end use case. Is
the user looking at historical trends? Should users be immediately and automatically
notified of an anomaly, such as a fraud alert? Is someone consuming a real-time
dashboard on a mobile application? These examples highlight the differences between
business analytics (usually BI), operational analytics, and embedded analytics. Each
of these analytics categories has different goals and unique serving requirements. Let’s
look at how you’ll serve data for these types of analytics.
Business Analytics
Business analytics uses historical and current data to make strategic and actionable
decisions. The types of decisions tend to factor in longer-term trends and often
involve a mix of statistical and trend analysis, alongside domain expertise and human
judgment. Business analysis is as much an art as it is a science.
Business analytics typically falls into a few big areas—dashboards, reports, and ad hoc
analysis. A business analyst might focus on one or all of these categories. Let’s quickly
look at the differences between these practices and related tools. Understanding an
analyst’s workflow will help you, the data engineer, understand how to serve data.
A dashboard concisely shows decision makers how an organization is performing
against a handful of core metrics, such as sales and customer retention. These core
metrics are presented as visualizations (e.g., charts or heatmaps), summary statistics,
or even a single number. This is similar to a car dashboard, which gives you a
single readout of the critical things you need to know while driving a vehicle. An
organization may have more than one dashboard, with C-level executives using
an overarching dashboard and their direct reports using dashboards with their par‐
ticular metrics, KPIs, or objectives and key results (OKRs). Analysts help create
and maintain these dashboards. Once business stakeholders embrace and rely on a
344
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

dashboard, the analyst usually responds to requests to look into a potential issue
with a metric or add a new metric to the dashboard. Currently, you might use BI
platforms to create dashboards, such as Tableau, Looker, Sisense, Power BI, or Apache
Superset/Preset.
Analysts are often tasked by business stakeholders with creating a report. The goal
of a report is to use data to drive insights and action. An analyst working at an
online retail company is asked to investigate which factors are driving a higher-than-
expected rate of returns for women’s running shorts. The analyst runs some SQL
queries in the data warehouse, aggregates the return codes that customers provide
as the reason for their return, and discovers that the fabric in the running shorts
is of inferior quality, often wearing out within a few uses. Stakeholders such as
manufacturing and quality control are notified of these findings. Furthermore, the
findings are summarized in a report and distributed in the same BI tool where the
dashboard resides.
The analyst was asked to dig into a potential issue and come back with insights. This
represents an example of ad hoc analysis. Reports typically start as ad hoc requests.
If the results of the ad hoc analysis are impactful, they often end up in a report
or dashboard. The technologies used for reports and ad hoc analysis are similar to
dashboards but may include Excel, Python, R-based notebooks, SQL queries, and
much more.
Good analysts constantly engage with the business and dive into the data to answer
questions and uncover hidden and counterintuitive trends and insights. They also
work with data engineers to provide feedback on data quality, reliability issues,
and requests for new datasets. The data engineer is responsible for addressing this
feedback and providing new datasets for the analyst to use.
Returning to the running shorts example, suppose that after communicating their
findings, analysts learn that manufacturing can provide them with various supply-
chain details regarding the materials used in the running shorts. Data engineers
undertake a project to ingest this data into the data warehouse. Once the supply-
chain data is present, analysts can correlate specific garment serial numbers with the
supplier of the fabric used in the item. They discover that most failures are tied to one
of their three suppliers, and the factory stops using fabric from this supplier.
The data for business analytics is frequently served in batch mode from a data
warehouse or a data lake. This varies wildly across companies, departments, and
even data teams within companies. New data might be available every second, every
minute, every 30 minutes, every day, or once a week. The frequency of the batches
can vary for several reasons. One key thing to note is that engineers working on ana‐
lytics problems should consider various potential applications of data—current and
future. It is common to have mixed data update frequencies to serve use cases appro‐
priately but remember that the frequency of ingestion sets a ceiling on downstream
Analytics
|
345

