# Databases

Paginas: 191-198

Databases
In this section, we’ll look at common source system database technologies that you’ll
encounter as a data engineer and high-level considerations for working with these
systems. There are as many types of databases as there are use cases for data.
Major considerations for understanding database technologies
Here, we introduce major ideas that occur across a variety of database technologies,
including those that back software applications and those that support analytics use
cases:
Database management system
A database system used to store and serve data. Abbreviated as DBMS, it consists
of a storage engine, query optimizer, disaster recovery, and other key compo‐
nents for managing the database system.
Lookups
How does the database find and retrieve data? Indexes can help speed up
lookups, but not all databases have indexes. Know whether your database uses
indexes; if so, what are the best patterns for designing and maintaining them?
Understand how to leverage for efficient extraction. It also helps to have a basic
knowledge of the major types of indexes, including B-tree and log-structured
merge-trees (LSM).
Query optimizer
Does the database utilize an optimizer? What are its characteristics?
Scaling and distribution
Does the database scale with demand? What scaling strategy does it deploy? Does
it scale horizontally (more database nodes) or vertically (more resources on a
single machine)?
Modeling patterns
What modeling patterns work best with the database (e.g., data normalization or
wide tables)? (See Chapter 8 for our discussion of data modeling.)
CRUD
How is data queried, created, updated, and deleted in the database? Every type of
database handles CRUD operations differently.
Consistency
Is the database fully consistent, or does it support a relaxed consistency model
(e.g., eventual consistency)? Does the database support optional consistency
modes for reads and writes (e.g., strongly consistent reads)?
166
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

We divide databases into relational and nonrelational categories. In truth, the nonre‐
lational category is far more diverse, but relational databases still occupy significant
space in application backends.
Relational databases
A relational database management system (RDBMS) is one of the most common
application backends. Relational databases were developed at IBM in the 1970s and
popularized by Oracle in the 1980s. The growth of the internet saw the rise of the
LAMP stack (Linux, Apache web server, MySQL, PHP) and an explosion of vendor
and open source RDBMS options. Even with the rise of NoSQL databases (described
in the following section), relational databases have remained extremely popular.
Data is stored in a table of relations (rows), and each relation contains multiple fields
(columns); see Figure 5-7. Note that we use the terms column and field interchangea‐
bly throughout this book. Each relation in the table has the same schema (a sequence
of columns with assigned static types such as string, integer, or float). Rows are
typically stored as a contiguous sequence of bytes on disk.
Figure 5-7. RDBMS stores and retrieves data at a row level
Tables are typically indexed by a primary key, a unique field for each row in the table.
The indexing strategy for the primary key is closely connected with the layout of the
table on disk.
Tables can also have various foreign keys—fields with values connected with the
values of primary keys in other tables, facilitating joins, and allowing for complex
schemas that spread data across multiple tables. In particular, it is possible to design
a normalized schema. Normalization is a strategy for ensuring that data in records is
not duplicated in multiple places, thus avoiding the need to update states in multiple
locations at once and preventing inconsistencies (see Chapter 8).
RDBMS systems are typically ACID compliant. Combining a normalized schema,
ACID compliance, and support for high transaction rates makes relational database
systems ideal for storing rapidly changing application states. The challenge for data
engineers is to determine how to capture state information over time.
Source System Practical Details
|
167

1 Keith D. Foote, “A Brief History of Non-Relational Databases,” Dataversity, June 19, 2018,
https://oreil.ly/5Ukg2.
A full discussion of the theory, history, and technology of RDBMS is beyond the
scope of this book. We encourage you to study RDBMS systems, relational algebra,
and strategies for normalization because they’re widespread, and you’ll encounter
them frequently. See “Additional Resources” on page 188 for suggested books.
Nonrelational databases: NoSQL
While relational databases are terrific for many use cases, they’re not a one-size-fits-
all solution. We often see that people start with a relational database under the
impression it’s a universal appliance and shoehorn in a ton of use cases and work‐
loads. As data and query requirements morph, the relational database collapses under
its weight. At that point, you’ll want to use a database that’s appropriate for the
specific workload under pressure. Enter nonrelational or NoSQL databases. NoSQL,
which stands for not only SQL, refers to a whole class of databases that abandon the
relational paradigm.
On the one hand, dropping relational constraints can improve performance, scala‐
bility, and schema flexibility. But as always in architecture, trade-offs exist. NoSQL
databases also typically abandon various RDBMS characteristics, such as strong con‐
sistency, joins, or a fixed schema.
A big theme of this book is that data innovation is constant. Let’s take a quick look at
the history of NoSQL, as it’s helpful to gain a perspective on why and how data inno‐
vations impact your work as a data engineer. In the early 2000s, tech companies such
as Google and Amazon began to outgrow their relational databases and pioneered
new distributed, nonrelational databases to scale their web platforms.
While the term NoSQL first appeared in 1998, the modern version was coined by Eric
Evans in the 2000s.1 He tells the story in a 2009 blog post:
I’ve spent the last couple of days at nosqleast and one of the hot topics here is the
name “nosql.” Understandably, there are a lot of people who worry that the name is
Bad, that it sends an inappropriate or inaccurate message. While I make no claims to
the idea, I do have to accept some blame for what it is now being called. How’s that?
Johan Oskarsson was organizing the first meetup and asked the question “What’s a
good name?” on IRC; it was one of three or four suggestions that I spouted off in the
span of like 45 seconds, without thinking.
My regret, however, isn’t about what the name says; it’s about what it doesn’t. When
Johan originally had the idea for the first meetup, he seemed to be thinking Big Data
and linearly scalable distributed systems, but the name is so vague that it opened the
door to talk submissions for literally anything that stored data, and wasn’t an RDBMS.
168
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

NoSQL remains vague in 2022, but it’s been widely adopted to describe a universe of
“new school” databases, alternatives to relational databases.
There are numerous flavors of NoSQL database designed for almost any imaginable
use case. Because there are far too many NoSQL databases to cover exhaustively
in this section, we consider the following database types: key-value, document,
wide-column, graph, search, and time series. These databases are all wildly popular
and enjoy widespread adoption. A data engineer should understand these types of
databases, including usage considerations, the structure of the data they store, and
how to leverage each in the data engineering lifecycle.
Key-value stores. A key-value database is a nonrelational database that retrieves
records using a key that uniquely identifies each record. This is similar to hash
map or dictionary data structures presented in many programming languages but
potentially more scalable. Key-value stores encompass several NoSQL database types
—for example, document stores and wide column databases (discussed next).
Different types of key-value databases offer a variety of performance characteristics
to serve various application needs. For example, in-memory key-value databases are
popular for caching session data for web and mobile applications, where ultra-fast
lookup and high concurrency are required. Storage in these systems is typically
temporary; if the database shuts down, the data disappears. Such caches can reduce
pressure on the main application database and serve speedy responses.
Of course, key-value stores can also serve applications requiring high-durability per‐
sistence. An ecommerce application may need to save and update massive amounts
of event state changes for a user and their orders. A user logs into the ecommerce
application, clicks around various screens, adds items to a shopping cart, and then
checks out. Each event must be durably stored for retrieval. Key-value stores often
persist data to disk and across multiple nodes to support such use cases.
Document stores. As mentioned previously, a document store is a specialized key-value
store. In this context, a document is a nested object; we can usually think of each
document as a JSON object for practical purposes. Documents are stored in collec‐
tions and retrieved by key. A collection is roughly equivalent to a table in a relational
database (see Table 5-2).
Table 5-2. Comparison of RDBMS and document terminology
RDBMS Document database
Table
Collection
Row
Document, items, entity
Source System Practical Details
|
169

One key difference between relational databases and document stores is that the
latter does not support joins. This means that data cannot be easily normalized, i.e.,
split across multiple tables. (Applications can still join manually. Code can look up a
document, extract a property, and then retrieve another document.) Ideally, all related
data can be stored in the same document.
In many cases, the same data must be stored in multiple documents spread across
numerous collections; software engineers must be careful to update a property
everywhere it is stored. (Many document stores support a notion of transactions
to facilitate this.)
Document databases generally embrace all the flexibility of JSON and don’t enforce
schema or types; this is a blessing and a curse. On the one hand, this allows the
schema to be highly flexible and expressive. The schema can also evolve as an
application grows. On the flip side, we’ve seen document databases become absolute
nightmares to manage and query. If developers are not careful in managing schema
evolution, data may become inconsistent and bloated over time. Schema evolution
can also break downstream ingestion and cause headaches for data engineers if it’s
not communicated in a timely fashion (before deployment).
The following is an example of data that is stored in a collection called users. The
collection key is the id. We also have a name (along with first and last as child
elements) and an array of the user’s favorite bands within each document:
{
"users":[
{
"id":1234,
"name":{
"first":"Joe",
"last":"Reis"
},
"favorite_bands":[
"AC/DC",
"Slayer",
"WuTang Clan",
"Action Bronson"
]
},
{
"id":1235,
"name":{
"first":"Matt",
"last":"Housley"
},
"favorite_bands":[
"Dave Matthews Band",
"Creed",
"Nickelback"
170
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

2 Nemil Dalal’s excellent series on the history of MongoDB recounts some harrowing tales of database abuse
and its consequences for fledgling startups.
]
}
]
}
To query the data in this example, you can retrieve records by key. Note that most
document databases also support the creation of indexes and lookup tables to allow
retrieval of documents by specific properties. This is often invaluable in application
development when you need to search for documents in various ways. For example,
you could set an index on name.
Another critical technical detail for data engineers is that document stores are
generally not ACID compliant, unlike relational databases. Technical expertise in
a particular document store is essential to understanding performance, tuning, con‐
figuration, related effects on writes, consistency, durability, etc. For example, many
document stores are eventually consistent. Allowing data distribution across a cluster
is a boon for scaling and performance but can lead to catastrophes when engineers
and developers don’t understand the implications.2
To run analytics on document stores, engineers generally must run a full scan to
extract all data from a collection or employ a CDC strategy to send events to a target
stream. The full scan approach can have both performance and cost implications. The
scan often slows the database as it runs, and many serverless cloud offerings charge a
significant fee for each full scan. In document databases, it’s often helpful to create an
index to help speed up queries. We discuss indexes and query patterns in Chapter 8.
Wide-column. A wide-column database is optimized for storing massive amounts
of data with high transaction rates and extremely low latency. These databases
can scale to extremely high write rates and vast amounts of data. Specifically, wide-
column databases can support petabytes of data, millions of requests per second,
and sub-10ms latency. These characteristics have made wide-column databases popu‐
lar in ecommerce, fintech, ad tech, IoT, and real-time personalization applications.
Data engineers must be aware of the operational characteristics of the wide-column
databases they work with to set up a suitable configuration, design the schema,
and choose an appropriate row key to optimize performance and avoid common
operational issues.
These databases support rapid scans of massive amounts of data, but they do not sup‐
port complex queries. They have only a single index (the row key) for lookups. Data
engineers must generally extract data and send it to a secondary analytics system
to run complex queries to deal with these limitations. This can be accomplished by
running large scans for the extraction or employing CDC to capture an event stream.
Source System Practical Details
|
171

3 Martin Kleppmann, Designing Data-Intensive Applications (Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly, 2017), 49,
https://oreil.ly/v1NhG.
4 Aashish Mehra, “Graph Database Market Worth $5.1 Billion by 2026: Exclusive Report by MarketsandMar‐
kets,” Cision PR Newswire, July 30, 2021, https://oreil.ly/mGVkY.
Graph databases. Graph databases explicitly store data with a mathematical graph
structure (as a set of nodes and edges).3 Neo4j has proven extremely popular, while
Amazon, Oracle, and other vendors offer their graph database products. Roughly
speaking, graph databases are a good fit when you want to analyze the connectivity
between elements.
For example, you could use a document database to store one document for each
user describing their properties. You could add an array element for connections
that contains directly connected users’ IDs in a social media context. It’s pretty easy
to determine the number of direct connections a user has, but suppose you want
to know how many users can be reached by traversing two direct connections.
You could answer this question by writing complex code, but each query would
run slowly and consume significant resources. The document store is simply not
optimized for this use case.
Graph databases are designed for precisely this type of query. Their data structures
allow for queries based on the connectivity between elements; graph databases are
indicated when we care about understanding complex traversals between elements.
In the parlance of graphs, we store nodes (users in the preceding example) and
edges (connections between users). Graph databases support rich data models for
both nodes and edges. Depending on the underlying graph database engine, graph
databases utilize specialized query languages such as SPARQL, Resource Description
Framework (RDF), Graph Query Language (GQL), and Cypher.
As an example of a graph, consider a network of four users. User 1 follows User 2,
who follows User 3 and User 4; User 3 also follows User 4 (Figure 5-8).
Figure 5-8. A social network graph
We anticipate that graph database applications will grow dramatically outside of tech
companies; market analyses also predict rapid growth.4 Of course, graph databases
172
|
Chapter 5: Data Generation in Source Systems

are beneficial from an operational perspective and support the kinds of complex
social relationships critical to modern applications. Graph structures are also fas‐
cinating from the perspective of data science and ML, potentially revealing deep
insights into human interactions and behavior.
This introduces unique challenges for data engineers who may be more accustomed
to dealing with structured relations, documents, or unstructured data. Engineers
must choose whether to do the following:
• Map source system graph data into one of their existing preferred paradigms
•
• Analyze graph data within the source system itself
•
• Adopt graph-specific analytics tools
•
Graph data can be reencoded into rows in a relational database, which may be a suit‐
able solution depending on the analytics use case. Transactional graph databases are
also designed for analytics, although large queries may overload production systems.
Contemporary cloud-based graph databases support read-heavy graph analytics on
massive quantities of data.
Search. A search database is a nonrelational database used to search your data’s
complex and straightforward semantic and structural characteristics. Two prominent
use cases exist for a search database: text search and log analysis. Let’s cover each of
these separately.
Text search involves searching a body of text for keywords or phrases, matching
on exact, fuzzy, or semantically similar matches. Log analysis is typically used for
anomaly detection, real-time monitoring, security analytics, and operational analyt‐
ics. Queries can be optimized and sped up with the use of indexes.
Depending on the type of company you work at, you may use search databases either
regularly or not at all. Regardless, it’s good to be aware they exist in case you come
across them in the wild. Search databases are popular for fast search and retrieval
and can be found in various applications; an ecommerce site may power its product
search using a search database. As a data engineer, you might be expected to bring
data from a search database (such as Elasticsearch, Apache Solr or Lucene, or Algolia)
into downstream KPI reports or something similar.
Time series. A time series is a series of values organized by time. For example, stock
prices might move as trades are executed throughout the day, or a weather sensor
will take atmospheric temperatures every minute. Any events that are recorded over
time—either regularly or sporadically—are time-series data. A time-series database is
optimized for retrieving and statistical processing of time-series data.
Source System Practical Details
|
173

