# Change Data Capture

Paginas: 277-278

be sent over the wire, and columns from columnar databases must be reserialized as
rows.
As discussed in “File-Based Export and Ingestion” on page 246, many databases now
support native file export that bypasses JDBC/ODBC and exports data directly in
formats such as Parquet, ORC, and Avro. Alternatively, many cloud data warehouses
provide direct REST APIs.
JDBC connections should generally be integrated with other ingestion technologies.
For example, we commonly use a reader process to connect to a database with JDBC,
write the extracted data into multiple objects, and then orchestrate ingestion into
a downstream system (see Figure 7-13). The reader process can run in a wholly
ephemeral cloud instance or in an orchestration system.
Figure 7-13. An ingestion process reads from a source database using JDBC, and then
writes objects into object storage. A target database (not shown) can be triggered to
ingest the data with an API call from an orchestration system.
Change Data Capture
Change data capture (CDC), introduced in Chapter 2, is the process of ingesting
changes from a source database system. For example, we might have a source Post‐
greSQL system that supports an application and periodically or continuously ingests
table changes for analytics.
Note that our discussion here is by no means exhaustive. We introduce you to com‐
mon patterns but suggest that you read the documentation on a particular database to
handle the details of CDC strategies.
Batch-oriented CDC
If the database table in question has an updated_at field containing the last time a
record was written or updated, we can query the table to find all updated rows since
a specified time. We set the filter timestamp based on when we last captured changed
rows from the tables. This process allows us to pull changes and differentially update
a target table.
This form of batch-oriented CDC has a key limitation: while we can easily determine
which rows have changed since a point in time, we don’t necessarily obtain all
changes that were applied to these rows. Consider the example of running batch CDC
on a bank account table every 24 hours. This operational table shows the current
252
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

account balance for each account. When money is moved in and out of accounts, the
banking application runs a transaction to update the balance.
When we run a query to return all rows in the account table that changed in the last
24 hours, we’ll see records for each account that recorded a transaction. Suppose that
a certain customer withdrew money five times using a debit card in the last 24 hours.
Our query will return only the last account balance recorded in the 24 hour period;
other records over the period won’t appear. This issue can be mitigated by utilizing
an insert-only schema, where each account transaction is recorded as a new record in
the table (see “Insert-Only” on page 162).
Continuous CDC
Continuous CDC captures all table history and can support near real-time data inges‐
tion, either for real-time database replication or to feed real-time streaming analytics.
Rather than running periodic queries to get a batch of table changes, continuous
CDC treats each write to the database as an event.
We can capture an event stream for continuous CDC in a couple of ways. One
of the most common approaches with a transactional database such as PostgreSQL
is log-based CDC. The database binary log records every change to the database
sequentially (see “Database Logs” on page 161). A CDC tool can read this log and
send the events to a target, such as the Apache Kafka Debezium streaming platform.
Some databases support a simplified, managed CDC paradigm. For instance, many
cloud-hosted databases can be configured to directly trigger a serverless function
or write to an event stream every time a change happens in the database. This com‐
pletely frees engineers from worrying about the details of how events are captured in
the database and forwarded.
CDC and database replication
CDC can be used to replicate between databases: events are buffered into a stream
and asynchronously written into a second database. However, many databases natively
support a tightly coupled version of replication (synchronous replication) that keeps
the replica fully in sync with the primary database. Synchronous replication typi‐
cally requires that the primary database and the replica are of the same type (e.g.,
PostgreSQL to PostgreSQL). The advantage of synchronous replication is that the
secondary database can offload work from the primary database by acting as a read
replica; read queries can be redirected to the replica. The query will return the same
results that would be returned from the primary database.
Read replicas are often used in batch data ingestion patterns to allow large scans
to run without overloading the primary production database. In addition, an applica‐
tion can be configured to fail over to the replica if the primary database becomes
Ways to Ingest Data
|
253

