# Orchestration

Paginas: 388-388

• Data health and data downtime
•
• Latency of systems serving data—dashboards, databases, etc.
•
• Data quality
•
• Data and system security and access
•
• Data and model versions being served
•
• Uptime to achieve an SLO
•
A variety of new tools have sprung up to address various monitoring aspects. For
example, many popular data observability tools aim to minimize data downtime
and maximize data quality. Observability tools may cross over from data to ML, sup‐
porting monitoring of models and model performance. More conventional DevOps
monitoring is also critical to DataOps—e.g., you need to monitor whether connec‐
tions are stable among storage, transformation, and serving.
As in every stage of the data engineering lifecycle, version-control code and opera‐
tionalize deployment. This applies to analytical code, data logic code, ML scripts, and
orchestration jobs. Use multiple stages of deployment (dev, test, prod) for reports and
models.
Data Architecture
Serving data should have the same architectural considerations as other data engi‐
neering lifecycle stages. At the serving stage, feedback loops must be fast and tight.
Users should be able to access the data they need as quickly as possible when they
need it.
Data scientists are notorious for doing most development on their local machines.
As discussed earlier, encourage them to migrate these workflows to common sys‐
tems in a cloud environment, where data teams can collaborate in dev, test, and
production environments and create proper production architectures. Facilitate your
analysts and data scientists by supporting tools for publishing data insights with little
encumbrance.
Orchestration
Data serving is the last stage of the data engineering lifecycle. Because serving is
downstream of so many processes, it’s an area of extremely complex overlap. Orches‐
tration is not simply a way of organizing and automating complex work but a means
of coordinating data flow across teams so that data is made available to consumers at
the promised time.
Ownership of orchestration is a key organizational decision. Will orchestration be
centralized or decentralized? A decentralized approach allows small teams to manage
Undercurrents
|
363

