# Data Architecture

Paginas: 210-210

engineering team is continuously deploying, a code change may cause unanticipated
failures in the application itself. How will the failure impact your ability to access the
databases powering the application? Will the data be up-to-date?
Set up a clear communication chain between data engineering and the teams
supporting the source systems. Ideally, these stakeholder teams have incorporated
DevOps into their workflow and culture. This will go a long way to accomplishing
the goals of DataOps (a sibling of DevOps), to address and reduce errors quickly.
As we mentioned earlier, data engineers need to weave themselves into the DevOps
practices of stakeholders, and vice versa. Successful DataOps works when all people
are on board and focus on making systems holistically work.
A few DataOps considerations are as follows:
Automation
There’s the automation impacting the source system, such as code updates and
new features. Then there’s the DataOps automation that you’ve set up for your
data workflows. Does an issue in the source system’s automation impact your
data workflow automation? If so, consider decoupling these systems so they can
perform automation independently.
Observability
How will you know when there’s an issue with a source system, such as an
outage or a data-quality issue? Set up monitoring for source system uptime (or
use the monitoring created by the team that owns the source system). Set up
checks to ensure that data from the source system conforms with expectations
for downstream usage. For example, is the data of good quality? Is the schema
conformant? Are customer records consistent? Is data hashed as stipulated by the
internal policy?
Incident response
What’s your plan if something bad happens? For example, how will your data
pipeline behave if a source system goes offline? What’s your plan to backfill the
“lost” data once the source system is back online?
Data Architecture
Similar to data management, unless you’re involved in the design and maintenance
of the source system architecture, you’ll have little impact on the upstream source
system architecture. You should also understand how the upstream architecture is
designed and its strengths and weaknesses. Talk often with the teams responsible for
the source systems to understand the factors discussed in this section and ensure that
their systems can meet your expectations. Knowing where the architecture performs
well and where it doesn’t will impact how you design your data pipeline.
Undercurrents and Their Impact on Source Systems
|
185

