# Data Engineers and Business Leadership

Paginas: 53-55

The world of ML engineering is snowballing and parallels a lot of the same develop‐
ments occurring in data engineering. Whereas several years ago, the attention of ML
was focused on how to build models, ML engineering now increasingly emphasizes
incorporating best practices of machine learning operations (MLOps) and other
mature practices previously adopted in software engineering and DevOps.
AI researchers work on new, advanced ML techniques. AI researchers may
work inside large technology companies, specialized intellectual property startups
(OpenAI, DeepMind), or academic institutions. Some practitioners are dedicated
to part-time research in conjunction with ML engineering responsibilities inside a
company. Those working inside specialized ML labs are often 100% dedicated to
research. Research problems may target immediate practical applications or more
abstract demonstrations of AI. DALL-E, Gato AI, AlphaGo, and GPT-3/GPT-4 are
great examples of ML research projects. Given the pace of advancements in ML,
these examples will very likely be quaint in a few years’ time. We’ve provided some
references in “Additional Resources” on page 32.
AI researchers in well-funded organizations are highly specialized and operate with
supporting teams of engineers to facilitate their work. ML engineers in academia
usually have fewer resources but rely on teams of graduate students, postdocs, and
university staff to provide engineering support. ML engineers who are partially dedi‐
cated to research often rely on the same support teams for research and production.
Data Engineers and Business Leadership
We’ve discussed technical roles with which a data engineer interacts. But data engi‐
neers also operate more broadly as organizational connectors, often in a nontechnical
capacity. Businesses have come to rely increasingly on data as a core part of many
products or a product in itself. Data engineers now participate in strategic planning
and lead key initiatives that extend beyond the boundaries of IT. Data engineers
often support data architects by acting as the glue between the business and data
science/analytics.
Data in the C-suite
C-level executives are increasingly involved in data and analytics, as these are recog‐
nized as significant assets for modern businesses. For example, CEOs now concern
themselves with initiatives that were once the exclusive province of IT, such as cloud
migrations or deployment of a new customer data platform.
Chief executive officer. Chief executive officers (CEOs) at nontech companies gener‐
ally don’t concern themselves with the nitty-gritty of data frameworks and software.
Instead, they define a vision in collaboration with technical C-suite roles and com‐
pany data leadership. Data engineers provide a window into what’s possible with
28
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

data. Data engineers and their managers maintain a map of what data is available
to the organization—both internally and from third parties—in what time frame.
They are also tasked to study primary data architectural changes in collaboration
with other engineering roles. For example, data engineers are often heavily involved
in cloud migrations, migrations to new data systems, or deployment of streaming
technologies.
Chief information officer. A chief information officer (CIO) is the senior C-suite
executive responsible for information technology within an organization; it is an
internal-facing role. A CIO must possess deep knowledge of information technology
and business processes—either alone is insufficient. CIOs direct the information
technology organization, setting ongoing policies while also defining and executing
significant initiatives under the direction of the CEO.
CIOs often collaborate with data engineering leadership in organizations with a well-
developed data culture. If an organization is not very high in its data maturity, a CIO
will typically help shape its data culture. CIOs will work with engineers and architects
to map out major initiatives and make strategic decisions on adopting major architec‐
tural elements, such as enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship
management (CRM) systems, cloud migrations, data systems, and internal-facing IT.
Chief technology officer. A chief technology officer (CTO) is similar to a CIO but faces
outward. A CTO owns the key technological strategy and architectures for external-
facing applications, such as mobile, web apps, and IoT—all critical data sources for
data engineers. The CTO is likely a skilled technologist and has a good sense of
software engineering fundamentals and system architecture. In some organizations
without a CIO, the CTO or sometimes the chief operating officer (COO) plays the
role of CIO. Data engineers often report directly or indirectly through a CTO.
Chief data officer. The chief data officer (CDO) was created in 2002 at Capital One
to recognize the growing importance of data as a business asset. The CDO is respon‐
sible for a company’s data assets and strategy. CDOs are focused on data’s business
utility but should have a strong technical grounding. CDOs oversee data products,
strategy, initiatives, and core functions such as master data management and privacy.
Occasionally, CDOs manage business analytics and data engineering.
Chief analytics officer. The chief analytics officer (CAO) is a variant of the CDO
role. Where both roles exist, the CDO focuses on the technology and organization
required to deliver data. The CAO is responsible for analytics, strategy, and decision
making for the business. A CAO may oversee data science and ML, though this
largely depends on whether the company has a CDO or CTO role.
Data Engineers Inside an Organization
|
29

Chief algorithms officer. A chief algorithms officer (CAO-2) is a recent innovation
in the C-suite, a highly technical role focused specifically on data science and ML.
CAO-2s typically have experience as individual contributors and team leads in data
science or ML projects. Frequently, they have a background in ML research and a
related advanced degree.
CAO-2s are expected to be conversant in current ML research and have deep tech‐
nical knowledge of their company’s ML initiatives. In addition to creating business
initiatives, they provide technical leadership, set research and development agendas,
and build research teams.
Data engineers and project managers
Data engineers often work on significant initiatives, potentially spanning many years.
As we write this book, many data engineers are working on cloud migrations,
migrating pipelines and warehouses to the next generation of data tools. Other data
engineers are starting greenfield projects, assembling new data architectures from
scratch by selecting from an astonishing number of best-of-breed architecture and
tooling options.
These large initiatives often benefit from project management (in contrast to product
management, discussed next). Whereas data engineers function in an infrastructure
and service delivery capacity, project managers direct traffic and serve as gatekeepers.
Most project managers operate according to some variation of Agile and Scrum, with
Waterfall still appearing occasionally. Business never sleeps, and business stakehold‐
ers often have a significant backlog of things they want to address and new initiatives
they want to launch. Project managers must filter a long list of requests and prioritize
critical deliverables to keep projects on track and better serve the company.
Data engineers interact with project managers, often planning sprints for projects
and ensuing standups related to the sprint. Feedback goes both ways, with data
engineers informing project managers and other stakeholders about progress and
blockers, and project managers balancing the cadence of technology teams against
the ever-changing needs of the business.
Data engineers and product managers
Product managers oversee product development, often owning product lines. In the
context of data engineers, these products are called data products. Data products
are either built from the ground up or are incremental improvements upon existing
products. Data engineers interact more frequently with product managers as the
corporate world has adopted a data-centric focus. Like project managers, product
managers balance the activity of technology teams against the needs of the customer
and business.
30
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

