# Stream-to-Batch Storage Architecture

Paginas: 242-242

automated metadata management, table history, and update/delete capabilities. The
complexities of managing underlying files and storage are fully hidden from the user.
The key advantage of the data lakehouse over proprietary tools is interoperability.
It’s much easier to exchange data between tools when stored in an open file format.
Reserializing data from a proprietary database format incurs overhead in processing,
time, and cost. In a data lakehouse architecture, various tools can connect to the
metadata layer and read data directly from object storage.
It is important to emphasize that much of the data in a data lakehouse may not have a
table structure imposed. We can impose data warehouse features where we need them
in a lakehouse, leaving other data in a raw or even unstructured format.
The data lakehouse technology is evolving rapidly. A variety of new competitors to
Delta Lake have emerged, including Apache Hudi and Apache Iceberg. See Appen‐
dix A for more details.
Data Platforms
Increasingly, vendors are styling their products as data platforms. These vendors
have created their ecosystems of interoperable tools with tight integration into the
core data storage layer. In evaluating platforms, engineers must ensure that the
tools offered meet their needs. Tools not directly provided in the platform can still
interoperate, with extra data overhead for data interchange. Platforms also emphasize
close integration with object storage for unstructured use cases, as mentioned in our
discussion of cloud data warehouses.
At this point, the notion of the data platform frankly has yet to be fully fleshed out.
However, the race is on to create a walled garden of data tools, both simplifying the
work of data engineering and generating significant vendor lock-in.
Stream-to-Batch Storage Architecture
The stream-to-batch storage architecture has many similarities to the Lambda archi‐
tecture, though some might quibble over the technical details. Essentially, data
flowing through a topic in the streaming storage system is written out to multiple
consumers.
Some of these consumers might be real-time processing systems that generate statis‐
tics on the stream. In addition, a batch storage consumer writes data for long-term
retention and batch queries. The batch consumer could be AWS Kinesis Firehose,
which can generate S3 objects based on configurable triggers (e.g., time and batch
size). Systems such as BigQuery ingest streaming data into a streaming buffer. This
streaming buffer is automatically reserialized into columnar object storage. The query
engine supports seamless querying of both the streaming buffer and the object data to
provide users a current, nearly real-time view of the table.
Data Engineering Storage Abstractions
|
217

