# Conclusion

Paginas: 212-212

Software Engineering
As the data landscape shifts to tools that simplify and automate access to source
systems, you’ll likely need to write code. Here are a few considerations when writing
code to access a source system:
Networking
Make sure your code will be able to access the network where the source sys‐
tem resides. Also, always think about secure networking. Are you accessing an
HTTPS URL over the public internet, SSH, or a VPN?
Authentication and authorization
Do you have the proper credentials (tokens, username/passwords) to access the
source system? Where will you store these credentials so they don’t appear in
your code or version control? Do you have the correct IAM roles to perform the
coded tasks?
Access patterns
How are you accessing the data? Are you using an API, and how are you
handling REST/GraphQL requests, response data volumes, and pagination? If
you’re accessing data via a database driver, is the driver compatible with the
database you’re accessing? For either access pattern, how are things like retries
and timeouts handled?
Orchestration
Does your code integrate with an orchestration framework, and can it be exe‐
cuted as an orchestrated workflow?
Parallelization
How are you managing and scaling parallel access to source systems?
Deployment
How are you handling the deployment of source code changes?
Conclusion
Source systems and their data are vital in the data engineering lifecycle. Data engi‐
neers tend to treat source systems as “someone else’s problem”—do this at your peril!
Data engineers who abuse source systems may need to look for another job when
production goes down.
If there’s a stick, there’s also a carrot. Better collaboration with source system teams
can lead to higher-quality data, more successful outcomes, and better data products.
Create a bidirectional flow of communications with your counterparts on these
teams; set up processes to notify of schema and application changes that affect
Conclusion
|
187

