# Embedded Analytics

Paginas: 373-373

a variety of machines capable of streaming real-time data. In addition, the plant has
cameras recording video on the manufacturing line. Right now, technicians watch the
footage in real time, look for defective items, and alert those running the line when
they see a high rate of snags appearing in items.
Data engineers realize that they can use an off-the-shelf cloud machine vision tool to
identify defects in real time automatically. Defect data is tied to specific item serial
numbers and streamed. From here, a real-time analytics process can tie defective
items to streaming events from machines further up the assembly line.
Using this approach, factory floor analysts discover that the quality of raw fabric
stock varies significantly from box to box. When the monitoring system shows a high
rate of snag defects, line workers can remove the defective box and charge it back to
the supplier.
Seeing the success of this quality improvement project, the supplier decides to adopt
similar quality-control processes. Data engineers from the retailer work with the
supplier to deploy their real-time data analytics, dramatically improving the quality of
their fabric stock.
Embedded Analytics
Whereas business and operational analytics are internally focused, a recent trend is
external-facing or embedded analytics. With so much data powering applications,
companies increasingly provide analytics to end users. These are typically referred to
as data applications, often with analytics dashboards embedded within the application
itself. Also known as embedded analytics, these end-user-facing dashboards give users
key metrics about their relationship with the application.
A smart thermostat has a mobile application that shows the temperature in real
time and up-to-date power consumption metrics, allowing the user to create a better
energy-efficient heating or cooling schedule. In another example, a third-party ecom‐
merce platform provides its sellers a real-time dashboard on sales, inventory, and
returns. The seller has the option to use this information to offer deals to customers
in near real time. In both cases, an application allows users to make real-time deci‐
sions (manually or automatically) based on data.
The landscape of embedded analytics is snowballing, and we expect that such data
applications will become increasingly pervasive within the next few years. As a data
engineer, you’re probably not creating the embedded analytics frontend, as the appli‐
cation developers handle that. Since you’re responsible for the databases serving the
embedded analytics, you’ll need to understand the speed and latency requirements
for embedded analytics.
348
|
Chapter 9: Serving Data for Analytics, Machine Learning, and Reverse ETL

