# What’s the Use Case, and Who’s the User?

Paginas: 364-364

trust is gone, earning it back is insanely difficult. This inevitably leads to the business
not performing to its fullest potential with data and data teams losing credibility (and
possibly being dissolved).
To realize data quality and build stakeholder trust, utilize data validation and data
observability processes, in conjunction with visually inspecting and confirming valid‐
ity with stakeholders. Data validation is analyzing data to ensure that it accurately
represents financial information, customer interactions, and sales. Data observability
provides an ongoing view of data and data processes. These processes must be applied
throughout the data engineering lifecycle to realize a good result as we reach the end.
We’ll discuss these further in “Undercurrents” on page 360.
In addition to building trust in data quality, it is incumbent on engineers to build
trust in their SLAs and SLOs with their end users and upstream stakeholders. Once
users come to depend on data to accomplish business processes, they will require
that data is consistently available and up-to-date per the commitments made by data
engineers. High-quality data is of little value if it’s not available as expected when it’s
time to make a critical business decision. Note, the SLAs and SLOs may also take the
form of data contracts (see Chapter 5), formally or informally.
We talked about SLAs in Chapter 5, but discussing them again here is worthwhile.
SLAs come in a variety of forms. Regardless of its form, an SLA tells users what to
expect from your data product; it is a contract between you and your stakeholders.
An example of an SLA might be, “Data will be reliably available and of high quality.”
An SLO is a key part of an SLA and describes the ways you’ll measure performance
against what you’ve agreed to. For example, given the preceding example SLA, an
SLO might be, “Our data pipelines to your dashboard or ML workflow will have 99%
uptime, with 95% of data free of defects.” Be sure expectations are clear and you have
the ability to verify you’re operating within your agreed SLA and SLO parameters.
It’s not enough to simply agree on an SLA. Ongoing communication is a central
feature of a good SLA. Have you communicated possible issues that might affect your
SLA or SLO expectations? What’s your process for remediation and improvement?
Trust is everything. It takes a long time to earn, and it’s easy to lose.
What’s the Use Case, and Who’s the User?
The serving stage is about data in action. But what is a productive use of data? You
need to consider two things to answer this question: what’s the use case, and who’s the
user?
The use case for data goes well beyond viewing reports and dashboards. Data is at
its best when it leads to action. Will an executive make a strategic decision from
a report? Will a user of a mobile food delivery app receive a coupon that entices
them to purchase in the next two minutes? The data is often used in more than one
General Considerations for Serving Data
|
339

