# Streaming Pipelines and Real-Time Analytical Databases

Paginas: 411-411

Figure 11-1. In the live data stack, data and intelligence moves in real time between the
application and supporting systems
Just as the MDS took advantage of the cloud and brought on-premises data ware‐
house and pipeline technologies to the masses, the live data stack takes real-time data
application technologies used at elite tech companies and makes them available to
companies of all sizes as easy-to-use cloud-based offerings. This will open up a new
world of possibilities for creating even better user experiences and business value.
Streaming Pipelines and Real-Time Analytical Databases
The MDS limits itself to batch techniques that treat data as bounded. In contrast,
real-time data applications treat data as an unbounded, continuous stream. Streaming
pipelines and real-time analytical databases are the two core technologies that will
facilitate the move from the MDS to the live data stack. While these technologies have
been around for some time, rapidly maturing managed cloud services will see them
be deployed much more widely.
Streaming technologies will continue to see extreme growth for the foreseeable
future. This will happen in conjunction with a clearer focus on the business utility
of streaming data. Up to the present, streaming systems have frequently been treated
like an expensive novelty or a dumb pipe for getting data from A to B. In the future,
streaming will radically transform organizational technology and business processes;
data architects and engineers will take the lead in these fundamental changes.
Real-time analytical databases enable both fast ingestion and subsecond queries on
this data. This data can be enriched or combined with historical datasets. When
combined with a streaming pipeline and automation, or dashboard that is capable
of real-time analytics, a whole new level of possibilities opens up. No longer are
you constrained by slow-running ELT processes, 15-minute updates, or other slow-
moving parts. Data moves in a continuous flow. As streaming ingestion becomes
more prevalent, batch ingestion will be less and less common. Why create a batch
386
|
Chapter 11: The Future of Data Engineering

