# Business Responsibilities

Paginas: 43-43

Zooming out, a data engineer must also understand the requirements of data con‐
sumers (data analysts and data scientists) and the broader implications of data across
the organization. Data engineering is a holistic practice; the best data engineers view
their responsibilities through business and technical lenses.
Business Responsibilities
The macro responsibilities we list in this section aren’t exclusive to data engineers but
are crucial for anyone working in a data or technology field. Because a simple Google
search will yield tons of resources to learn about these areas, we will simply list them
for brevity:
Know how to communicate with nontechnical and technical people.
Communication is key, and you need to be able to establish rapport and trust
with people across the organization. We suggest paying close attention to organi‐
zational hierarchies, who reports to whom, how people interact, and which silos
exist. These observations will be invaluable to your success.
Understand how to scope and gather business and product requirements.
You need to know what to build and ensure that your stakeholders agree with
your assessment. In addition, develop a sense of how data and technology deci‐
sions impact the business.
Understand the cultural foundations of Agile, DevOps, and DataOps.
Many technologists mistakenly believe these practices are solved through tech‐
nology. We feel this is dangerously wrong. Agile, DevOps, and DataOps are
fundamentally cultural, requiring buy-in across the organization.
Control costs.
You’ll be successful when you can keep costs low while providing outsized value.
Know how to optimize for time to value, the total cost of ownership, and oppor‐
tunity cost. Learn to monitor costs to avoid surprises.
Learn continuously.
The data field feels like it’s changing at light speed. People who succeed in it are
great at picking up new things while sharpening their fundamental knowledge.
They’re also good at filtering, determining which new developments are most
relevant to their work, which are still immature, and which are just fads. Stay
abreast of the field and learn how to learn.
A successful data engineer always zooms out to understand the big picture and
how to achieve outsized value for the business. Communication is vital, both for
technical and nontechnical people. We often see data teams succeed based on their
communication with other stakeholders; success or failure is rarely a technology
issue. Knowing how to navigate an organization, scope and gather requirements,
18
|
Chapter 1: Data Engineering Described

