# Random Access Memory

Paginas: 219-219

SSDs still play a significant role in OLAP systems. Some OLAP databases leverage
SSD caching to support high-performance queries on frequently accessed data. As
low-latency OLAP becomes more popular, we expect SSD usage in these systems to
follow suit.
Random Access Memory
We commonly use the terms random access memory (RAM) and memory inter‐
changeably. Strictly speaking, magnetic drives and SSDs also serve as memory
that stores data for later random access retrieval, but RAM has several specific
characteristics:
• It is attached to a CPU and mapped into CPU address space.
•
• It stores the code that CPUs execute and the data that this code directly processes.
•
• It is volatile, while magnetic drives and SSDs are nonvolatile. Though they may
•
occasionally fail and corrupt or lose data, drives generally retain data when
powered off. RAM loses data in less than a second when it is unpowered.
• It offers significantly higher transfer speeds and faster retrieval times than SSD
•
storage. DDR5 memory—the latest widely used standard for RAM—offers data
retrieval latency on the order of 100 ns, roughly 1,000 times faster than SSD. A
typical CPU can support 100 GB/s bandwidth to attached memory and millions
of IOPS. (Statistics vary dramatically depending on the number of memory
channels and other configuration details.)
• It is significantly more expensive than SSD storage, at roughly $10/GB (at the
•
time of this writing).
• It is limited in the amount of RAM attached to an individual CPU and memory
•
controller. This adds further to complexity and cost. High-memory servers typ‐
ically utilize many interconnected CPUs on one board, each with a block of
attached RAM.
• It is still significantly slower than CPU cache, a type of memory located directly
•
on the CPU die or in the same package. Cache stores frequently and recently
accessed data for ultrafast retrieval during processing. CPU designs incorporate
several layers of cache of varying size and performance characteristics.
When we talk about system memory, we almost always mean dynamic RAM, a
high-density, low-cost form of memory. Dynamic RAM stores data as charges in
capacitors. These capacitors leak over time, so the data must be frequently refreshed
(read and rewritten) to prevent data loss. The hardware memory controller handles
these technical details; data engineers simply need to worry about bandwidth and
retrieval latency characteristics. Other forms of memory, such as static RAM, are used
in specialized applications such as CPU caches.
194
|
Chapter 6: Storage

