# Conclusion

Paginas: 414-415

Conclusion
Thank you for joining us on this journey through data engineering! We traversed
good architecture, the stages of the data engineering lifecycle, and security best
practices. We’ve discussed strategies for choosing technologies at a time when our
field continues to change at an extraordinary pace. In this chapter, we laid out our
wild speculation about the near and intermediate future.
Some aspects of our prognostication sit on a relatively secure footing. The simpli‐
fication of managed tooling and the rise of “enterprisey” data engineering have
proceeded day by day as we’ve written this book. Other predictions are much more
speculative in nature; we see hints of an emerging live data stack, but this entails a
significant paradigm shift for both individual engineers and the organizations that
employ them. Perhaps the trend toward real-time data will stall once again, with
most companies continuing to focus on basic batch processing. Surely, other trends
exist that we have completely failed to identify. The evolution of technology involves
complex interactions of technology and culture. Both are unpredictable.
Data engineering is a vast topic; while we could not go into any technical depth in
individual areas, we hope that we have succeeded in creating a kind of travel guide
that will help current data engineers, future data engineers, and those who work
adjacent to the field to find their way in a domain that is in flux. We advise you to
continue exploration on your own. As you discover interesting topics and ideas in
this book, continue the conversation as part of a community. Identify domain experts
who can help you to uncover the strengths and pitfalls of trendy technologies and
practices. Read extensively from the latest books, blog posts, and papers. Participate
in meetups and listen to talks. Ask questions and share your own expertise. Keep an
eye on vendor announcements to stay abreast of the latest developments, taking all
claims with a healthy grain of salt.
Through this process, you can choose technology. Next, you will need to adopt tech‐
nology and develop expertise, perhaps as an individual contributor, perhaps within
your team as a lead, perhaps across an entire technology organization. As you do
this, don’t lose sight of the larger goals of data engineering. Focus on the lifecycle, on
serving your customers—internal and external—on your business, on serving and on
your larger goals.
Regarding the future, many of you will play a role in determining what comes
next. Technology trends are defined not only by those who create the underlying
technology but also by those who adopt it and put it to good use. Successful tool
use is as critical as tool creation. Find opportunities to apply real-time technology
that will improve the user experience, create value, and define entirely new types of
applications. It is this kind of practical application that will materialize the live data
Conclusion
|
389

stack as a new industry standard; or perhaps some other new technology trend that
we failed to identify will win the day.
Finally, we wish you an exciting career! We chose to work in data engineering, to
consult, and to write this book not simply because it was trendy but because it was
fascinating. We hope that we’ve managed to convey to you a bit of the joy we’ve found
working in this field.
390
|
Chapter 11: The Future of Data Engineering

