# Security

Paginas: 208-208

In addition, consider establishing an SLA with upstream providers. An SLA provides
expectations of what you can expect from the source systems you rely upon. An
example of an SLA might be “data from source systems will be reliably available and
of high quality.” A service-level objective (SLO) measures performance against what
you’ve agreed to in the SLA. For example, given your example SLA, an SLO might
be “source systems will have 99% uptime.” If a data contract or SLA/SLO seems too
formal, at least verbally set expectations for source system guarantees for uptime, data
quality, and anything else of importance to you. Upstream owners of source systems
need to understand your requirements so they can provide you with the data you
need.
Undercurrents and Their Impact on Source Systems
Unlike other parts of the data engineering lifecycle, source systems are generally
outside the control of the data engineer. There’s an implicit assumption (some might
call it hope) that the stakeholders and owners of the source systems—and the data
they produce—are following best practices concerning data management, DataOps
(and DevOps), DODD (mentioned in Chapter 2) data architecture, orchestration,
and software engineering. The data engineer should get as much upstream support as
possible to ensure that the undercurrents are applied when data is generated in source
systems. Doing so will make the rest of the steps in the data engineering lifecycle
proceed a lot more smoothly.
How do the undercurrents impact source systems? Let’s have a look.
Security
Security is critical, and the last thing you want is to accidentally create a point of
vulnerability in a source system. Here are some areas to consider:
• Is the source system architected so data is secure and encrypted, both with data at
•
rest and while data is transmitted?
• Do you have to access the source system over the public internet, or are you
•
using a virtual private network (VPN)?
• Keep passwords, tokens, and credentials to the source system securely locked
•
away. For example, if you’re using Secure Shell (SSH) keys, use a key manager to
protect your keys; the same rule applies to passwords—use a password manager
or a single sign-on (SSO) provider.
• Do you trust the source system? Always be sure to trust but verify that the source
•
system is legitimate. You don’t want to be on the receiving end of data from a
malicious actor.
Undercurrents and Their Impact on Source Systems
|
183

