# The Dataflow Model and Unified Batch and Streaming

Paginas: 130-130

23 Jay Kreps, “Questioning the Lambda Architecture,” O’Reilly Radar, July 2, 2014, https://oreil.ly/wWR3n.
Lambda architecture has its share of challenges and criticisms. Managing multiple
systems with different codebases is as difficult as it sounds, creating error-prone
systems with code and data that are extremely difficult to reconcile.
We mention Lambda architecture because it still gets attention and is popular in
search-engine results for data architecture. Lambda isn’t our first recommendation
if you’re trying to combine streaming and batch data for analytics. Technology and
practices have moved on.
Next, let’s look at a reaction to Lambda architecture, the Kappa architecture.
Kappa Architecture
As a response to the shortcomings of Lambda architecture, Jay Kreps proposed an
alternative called Kappa architecture (Figure 3-15).23 The central thesis is this: why not
just use a stream-processing platform as the backbone for all data handling—inges‐
tion, storage, and serving? This facilitates a true event-based architecture. Real-time
and batch processing can be applied seamlessly to the same data by reading the live
event stream directly and replaying large chunks of data for batch processing.
Figure 3-15. Kappa architecture
Though the original Kappa architecture article came out in 2014, we haven’t seen it
widely adopted. There may be a couple of reasons for this. First, streaming itself is
still a bit of a mystery for many companies; it’s easy to talk about, but harder than
expected to execute. Second, Kappa architecture turns out to be complicated and
expensive in practice. While some streaming systems can scale to huge data volumes,
they are complex and expensive; batch storage and processing remain much more
efficient and cost-effective for enormous historical datasets.
The Dataflow Model and Unified Batch and Streaming
Both Lambda and Kappa sought to address limitations of the Hadoop ecosystem
of the 2010s by trying to duct-tape together complicated tools that were likely not
natural fits in the first place. The central challenge of unifying batch and streaming
data remained, and Lambda and Kappa both provided inspiration and groundwork
for continued progress in this pursuit.
Examples and Types of Data Architecture
|
105

