# Data Management

Paginas: 289-290

Security
Moving data introduces security vulnerabilities because you have to transfer data
between locations. The last thing you want is to capture or compromise the data
while moving.
Consider where the data lives and where it is going. Data that needs to move within
your VPC should use secure endpoints and never leave the confines of the VPC.
Use a VPN or a dedicated private connection if you need to send data between the
cloud and an on-premises network. This might cost money, but the security is a good
investment. If your data traverses the public internet, ensure that the transmission is
encrypted. It is always a good practice to encrypt data over the wire.
Data Management
Naturally, data management begins at data ingestion. This is the starting point for
lineage and data cataloging; from this point on, data engineers need to think about
schema changes, ethics, privacy, and compliance.
Schema changes
Schema changes (such as adding, changing, or removing columns in a database table)
remain, from our perspective, an unsettled issue in data management. The traditional
approach is a careful command-and-control review process. Working with clients at
large enterprises, we have been quoted lead times of six months for the addition of a
single field. This is an unacceptable impediment to agility.
On the opposite end of the spectrum, any schema change in the source triggers
target tables to be re-created with the new schema. This solves schema problems at
the ingestion stage but can still break downstream pipelines and destination storage
systems.
One possible solution, which we, the authors, have meditated on for a while, is an
approach pioneered by Git version control. When Linus Torvalds was developing Git,
many of his choices were inspired by the limitations of Concurrent Versions System
(CVS). CVS is completely centralized; it supports only one current official version of
the code, stored on a central project server. To make Git a truly distributed system,
Torvalds used the notion of a tree; each developer could maintain their processed
branch of the code and then merge to or from other branches.
A few years ago, such an approach to data was unthinkable. On-premises MPP
systems are typically operated at close to maximum storage capacity. However, stor‐
age is cheap in big data and cloud data warehouse environments. One may quite
easily maintain multiple versions of a table with different schemas and even different
upstream transformations. Teams can support various “development” versions of
a table by using orchestration tools such as Airflow; schema changes, upstream
264
|
Chapter 7: Ingestion

transformation, and code changes can appear in development tables before official
changes to the main table.
Data ethics, privacy, and compliance
Clients often ask for our advice on encrypting sensitive data in databases, which
generally leads us to ask a fundamental question: do you need the sensitive data
you’re trying to encrypt? As it turns out, this question often gets overlooked when
creating requirements and solving problems.
Data engineers should always train themselves to ask this question when setting
up ingestion pipelines. They will inevitably encounter sensitive data; the natural
tendency is to ingest it and forward it to the next step in the pipeline. But if this data
is not needed, why collect it at all? Why not simply drop sensitive fields before data is
stored? Data cannot leak if it is never collected.
Where it is truly necessary to keep track of sensitive identities, it is common practice
to apply tokenization to anonymize identities in model training and analytics. But
engineers should look at where this tokenization is used. If possible, hash data at
ingestion time.
Data engineers cannot avoid working with highly sensitive data in some cases. Some
analytics systems must present identifiable, sensitive information. Engineers must
act under the highest ethical standards whenever they handle sensitive data. In
addition, they can put in place a variety of practices to reduce the direct handling of
sensitive data. Aim as much as possible for touchless production where sensitive data
is involved. This means that engineers develop and test code on simulated or cleansed
data in development and staging environments but automated code deployments to
production.
Touchless production is an ideal that engineers should strive for, but situations
inevitably arise that cannot be fully solved in development and staging environments.
Some bugs may not be reproducible without looking at the live data that is triggering
a regression. For these cases, put a broken-glass process in place: require at least two
people to approve access to sensitive data in the production environment. This access
should be tightly scoped to a particular issue and come with an expiration date.
Our last bit of advice on sensitive data: be wary of naive technological solutions to
human problems. Both encryption and tokenization are often treated like privacy
magic bullets. Most cloud-based storage systems and nearly all databases encrypt data
at rest and in motion by default. Generally, we don’t see encryption problems but data
access problems. Is the solution to apply an extra layer of encryption to a single field
or to control access to that field? After all, one must still tightly manage access to the
encryption key. Legitimate use cases exist for single-field encryption, but watch out
for ritualistic encryption.
Undercurrents
|
265

