# Improving Query Performance

Paginas: 300-305

1. The database engine compiles the SQL, parsing the code to check for proper
1.
semantics and ensuring that the database objects referenced exist and that the
current user has the appropriate access to these objects.
2. The SQL code is converted into bytecode. This bytecode expresses the steps
2.
that must be executed on the database engine in an efficient, machine-readable
format.
3. The database’s query optimizer analyzes the bytecode to determine how to exe‐
3.
cute the query, reordering and refactoring steps to use available resources as
efficiently as possible.
4. The query is executed, and results are produced.
4.
The Query Optimizer
Queries can have wildly different execution times, depending on how they’re exe‐
cuted. A query optimizer’s job is to optimize query performance and minimize costs
by breaking the query into appropriate steps in an efficient order. The optimizer will
assess joins, indexes, data scan size, and other factors. The query optimizer attempts
to execute the query in the least expensive manner.
Query optimizers are fundamental to how your query will perform. Every database
is different and executes queries in ways that are obviously and subtly different from
each other. You won’t directly work with a query optimizer, but understanding some
of its functionality will help you write more performant queries. You’ll need to know
how to analyze a query’s performance, using things like an explain plan or query
analysis, described in the following section.
Improving Query Performance
In data engineering, you’ll inevitably encounter poorly performing queries. Knowing
how to identify and fix these queries is invaluable. Don’t fight your database. Learn to
work with its strengths and augment its weaknesses. This section shows various ways
to improve your query performance.
Optimize your join strategy and schema
A single dataset (such as a table or file) is rarely useful on its own; we create value
by combining it with other datasets. Joins are one of the most common means of
combining datasets and creating new ones. We assume that you’re familiar with
the significant types of joins (e.g., inner, outer, left, cross) and the types of join
relationships (e.g., one to one, one to many, many to one, and many to many).
Queries
|
275

Joins are critical in data engineering and are well supported and performant in many
databases. Even columnar databases, which in the past had a reputation for slow join
performance, now generally offer excellent performance.
A common technique for improving query performance is to prejoin data. If you find
that analytics queries are joining the same data repeatedly, it often makes sense to
join the data in advance and have queries read from the prejoined version of the
data so that you’re not repeating computationally intensive work. This may mean
changing the schema and relaxing normalization conditions to widen tables and
utilize newer data structures (such as arrays or structs) for replacing frequently joined
entity relationships. Another strategy is maintaining a more normalized schema but
prejoining tables for the most common analytics and data science use cases. We
can simply create prejoined tables and train users to utilize these or join inside
materialized views (see “Materialized Views, Federation, and Query Virtualization”
on page 323).
Next, consider the details and complexity of your join conditions. Complex join logic
may consume significant computational resources. We can improve performance for
complex joins in a few ways.
Many row-oriented databases allow you to index a result computed from a row.
For instance, PostgreSQL allows you to create an index on a string field converted
to lowercase; when the optimizer encounters a query where the lower() function
appears inside a predicate, it can apply the index. You can also create a new derived
column for joining, though you will need to train users to join on this column.
Row Explosion
An obscure but frustrating problem is row explosion. This occurs when we have a
large number of many-to-many matches, either because of repetition in join keys or
as a consequence of join logic. Suppose the join key in table A has the value this
repeated five times, and the join key in table B contains this same value repeated 10
times. This leads to a cross-join of these rows: every this row from table A paired
with every this row from table B. This creates 5 × 10 = 50 rows in the output. Now
suppose that many other repeats are in the join key. Row explosion often generates
enough rows to consume a massive quantity of database resources or even cause a
query to fail.
It is also essential to know how your query optimizer handles joins. Some databases
can reorder joins and predicates, while others cannot. A row explosion in an early
query stage may cause the query to fail, even though a later predicate should correctly
remove many of the repeats in the output. Predicate reordering can significantly
reduce the computational resources required by a query.
276
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

Finally, use common table expressions (CTEs) instead of nested subqueries or tem‐
porary tables. CTEs allow users to compose complex queries together in a readable
fashion, helping you understand the flow of your query. The importance of readabil‐
ity for complex queries cannot be understated.
In many cases, CTEs will also deliver better performance than a script that creates
intermediate tables; if you have to create intermediate tables, consider creating tem‐
porary tables. If you’d like to learn more about CTEs, a quick web search will yield
plenty of helpful information.
Use the explain plan and understand your query’s performance
As you learned in the preceding section, the database’s query optimizer influences
the execution of a query. The query optimizer’s explain plan will show you how the
query optimizer determined its optimum lowest-cost query, the database objects used
(tables, indexes, cache, etc.), and various resource consumption and performance
statistics in each query stage. Some databases provide a visual representation of query
stages. In contrast, others make the explain plan available via SQL with the EXPLAIN
command, which displays the sequence of steps the database will take to execute the
query.
In addition to using EXPLAIN to understand how your query will run, you should
monitor your query’s performance, viewing metrics on database resource consump‐
tion. The following are some areas to monitor:
• Usage of key resources such as disk, memory, and network.
•
• Data loading time versus processing time.
•
• Query execution time, number of records, the size of the data scanned, and the
•
quantity of data shuffled.
• Competing queries that might cause resource contention in your database.
•
• Number of concurrent connections used versus connections available. Oversub‐
•
scribed concurrent connections can have negative effects on your users who may
not be able to connect to the database.
Avoid full table scans
All queries scan data, but not all scans are created equal. As a rule of thumb, you
should query only the data you need. When you run SELECT * with no predicates,
you’re scanning the entire table and retrieving every row and column. This is very
inefficient performance-wise and expensive, especially if you’re using a pay-as-you-go
database that charges you either for bytes scanned or compute resources utilized
while a query is running.
Queries
|
277

Whenever possible, use pruning to reduce the quantity of data scanned in a query.
Columnar and row-oriented databases require different pruning strategies. In a
column-oriented database, you should select only the columns you need. Most
column-oriented OLAP databases also provide additional tools for optimizing your
tables for better query performance. For instance, if you have a very large table
(several terabytes in size or greater), Snowflake and BigQuery give you the option
to define a cluster key on a table, which orders the table’s data in a way that allows
queries to more efficiently access portions of very large datasets. BigQuery also allows
you to partition a table into smaller segments, allowing you to query only specific
partitions instead of the entire table. (Be aware that inappropriate clustering and key
distribution strategies can degrade performance.)
In row-oriented databases, pruning usually centers around table indexes, which you
learned in Chapter 6. The general strategy is to create table indexes that will improve
performance for your most performance-sensitive queries while not overloading the
table with so many indexes such that you degrade performance.
Know how your database handles commits
A database commit is a change within a database, such as creating, updating, or delet‐
ing a record, table, or other database objects. Many databases support transactions—
i.e., a notion of committing several operations simultaneously in a way that maintains
a consistent state. Please note that the term transaction is somewhat overloaded; see
Chapter 5. The purpose of a transaction is to keep a consistent state of a database
both while it’s active and in the event of a failure. Transactions also handle isolation
when multiple concurrent events might be reading, writing, and deleting from the
same database objects. Without transactions, users would get potentially conflicting
information when querying a database.
You should be intimately familiar with how your database handles commits and
transactions, and determine the expected consistency of query results. Does your
database handle writes and updates in an ACID-compliant manner? Without ACID
compliance, your query might return unexpected results. This could result from a
dirty read, which happens when a row is read and an uncommitted transaction has
altered the row. Are dirty reads an expected behavior of your database? If so, how
do you handle this? Also, be aware that during update and delete transactions, some
databases create new files to represent the new state of the database and retain the old
files for failure checkpoint references. In these databases, running a large number of
small commits can lead to clutter and consume significant storage space that might
need to be vacuumed periodically.
Let’s briefly consider three databases to understand the impact of commits (note these
examples are current as of the time of this writing). First, suppose we’re looking at
a PostgreSQL RDBMS and applying ACID transactions. Each transaction consists of
278
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

1 See, for example, Emin Gün Sirer, “NoSQL Meets Bitcoin and Brings Down Two Exchanges: The Story of
Flexcoin and Poloniex,” Hacking, Distributed, April 6, 2014, https://oreil.ly/RM3QX.
a package of operations that will either fail or succeed as a group. We can also run
analytics queries across many rows; these queries will present a consistent picture of
the database at a point in time.
The disadvantage of the PostgreSQL approach is that it requires row locking (blocking
reads and writes to certain rows), which can degrade performance in various ways.
PostgreSQL is not optimized for large scans or the massive amounts of data appropri‐
ate for large-scale analytics applications.
Next, consider Google BigQuery. It utilizes a point-in-time full table commit model.
When a read query is issued, BigQuery will read from the latest committed snapshot
of the table. Whether the query runs for one second or two hours, it will read only
from that snapshot and will not see any subsequent changes. BigQuery does not lock
the table while I read from it. Instead, subsequent write operations will create new
commits and new snapshots while the query continues to run on the snapshot where
it started.
To prevent the inconsistent state, BigQuery allows only one write operation at a time.
In this sense, BigQuery provides no write concurrency whatsoever. (In the sense that
it can write massive amounts of data in parallel inside a single write query, it is highly
concurrent.) If more than one client attempts to write simultaneously, write queries
are queued in order of arrival. BigQuery’s commit model is similar to the commit
models used by Snowflake, Spark, and others.
Last, let’s consider MongoDB. We refer to MongoDB as a variable-consistency data‐
base. Engineers have various configurable consistency options, both for the database
and at the level of individual queries. MongoDB is celebrated for its extraordinary
scalability and write concurrency but is somewhat notorious for issues that arise
when engineers abuse it.1
For instance, in certain modes, MongoDB supports ultra-high write performance.
However, this comes at a cost: the database will unceremoniously and silently discard
writes if it gets overwhelmed with traffic. This is perfectly suitable for applications
that can stand to lose some data—for example, IoT applications where we simply
want many measurements but don’t care about capturing all measurements. It is not a
great fit for applications that need to capture exact data and statistics.
None of this is to say these are bad databases. They’re all fantastic databases when
they are chosen for appropriate applications and configured correctly. The same goes
for virtually any database technology.
Queries
|
279

2 Some Redshift configurations rely on object storage instead.
Companies don’t hire engineers simply to hack on code in isolation. To be worthy
of their title, engineers should develop a deep understanding of the problems they’re
tasked with solving and the technology tools. This applies to commit and consistency
models and every other aspect of technology performance. Appropriate technology
choices and configuration can ultimately differentiate extraordinary success and mas‐
sive failure. Refer to Chapter 6 for a deeper discussion of consistency.
Vacuum dead records
As we just discussed, transactions incur the overhead of creating new records during
certain operations, such as updates, deletes, and index operations, while retaining the
old records as pointers to the last state of the database. As these old records accumu‐
late in the database filesystem, they eventually no longer need to be referenced. You
should remove these dead records in a process called vacuuming.
You can vacuum a single table, multiple tables, or all tables in a database. No mat‐
ter how you choose to vacuum, deleting dead database records is important for
a few reasons. First, it frees up space for new records, leading to less table bloat
and faster queries. Second, new and relevant records mean query plans are more
accurate; outdated records can lead the query optimizer to generate suboptimal and
inaccurate plans. Finally, vacuuming cleans up poor indexes, allowing for better index
performance.
Vacuum operations are handled differently depending on the type of database. For
example, in databases backed by object storage (BigQuery, Snowflake, Databricks),
the only downside of old data retention is that it uses storage space, potentially
costing money depending on the storage pricing model for the database. In Snow‐
flake, users cannot directly vacuum. Instead, they control a “time-travel” interval that
determines how long table snapshots are retained before they are auto vacuumed.
BigQuery utilizes a fixed seven-day history window. Databricks generally retains data
indefinitely until it is manually vacuumed; vacuuming is important to control direct
S3 storage costs.
Amazon Redshift handles its cluster disks in many configurations,2 and vacuuming
can impact performance and available storage. VACUUM runs automatically behind the
scenes, but users may sometimes want to run it manually for tuning purposes.
Vacuuming becomes even more critical for relational databases such as PostgreSQL
and MySQL. Large numbers of transactional operations can cause a rapid accumula‐
tion of dead records, and engineers working in these systems need to familiarize
themselves with the details and impact of vacuuming.
280
|
Chapter 8: Queries, Modeling, and Transformation

