# Magnetic Disk Drive

Paginas: 216-217

1 Andy Klein, “Hard Disk Drive (HDD) vs. Solid-State Drive (SSD): What’s the Diff?,” Backblaze blog,
October 5, 2021, https://oreil.ly/XBps8.
Next, we’ll look at storage systems. In practice, we don’t directly access system mem‐
ory or hard disks. These physical storage components exist inside servers and clusters
that can ingest and retrieve data using various access paradigms.
Finally, we’ll look at storage abstractions. Storage systems are assembled into a cloud
data warehouse, a data lake, etc. When building data pipelines, engineers choose
the appropriate abstractions for storing their data as it moves through the ingestion,
transformation, and serving stages.
Raw Ingredients of Data Storage
Storage is so common that it’s easy to take it for granted. We’re often surprised by the
number of software and data engineers who use storage every day but have little idea
how it works behind the scenes or the trade-offs inherent in various storage media.
As a result, we see storage used in some pretty...interesting ways. Though current
managed services potentially free data engineers from the complexities of managing
servers, data engineers still need to be aware of underlying components’ essential
characteristics, performance considerations, durability, and costs.
In most data architectures, data frequently passes through magnetic storage, SSDs,
and memory as it works its way through the various processing phases of a data
pipeline. Data storage and query systems generally follow complex recipes involving
distributed systems, numerous services, and multiple hardware storage layers. These
systems require the right raw ingredients to function correctly.
Let’s look at some of the raw ingredients of data storage: disk drives, memory,
networking and CPU, serialization, compression, and caching.
Magnetic Disk Drive
Magnetic disks utilize spinning platters coated with a ferromagnetic film (Figure 6-3).
This film is magnetized by a read/write head during write operations to physically
encode binary data. The read/write head detects the magnetic field and outputs a bit‐
stream during read operations. Magnetic disk drives have been around for ages. They
still form the backbone of bulk data storage systems because they are significantly
cheaper than SSDs per gigabyte of stored data.
On the one hand, these disks have seen extraordinary improvements in perfor‐
mance, storage density, and cost.1 On the other hand, SSDs dramatically outperform
magnetic disks on various metrics. Currently, commercial magnetic disk drives
cost roughly 3 cents per gigabyte of capacity. (Note that we’ll frequently use the
Raw Ingredients of Data Storage
|
191

abbreviations HDD and SSD to denote rotating magnetic disk and solid-state drives,
respectively.)
Figure 6-3. Magnetic disk head movement and rotation are essential in random access
latency
IBM developed magnetic disk drive technology in the 1950s. Since then, magnetic
disk capacities have grown steadily. The first commercial magnetic disk drive, the
IBM 350, had a capacity of 3.75 megabytes. As of this writing, magnetic drives
storing 20 TB are commercially available. In fact, magnetic disks continue to see
rapid innovation, with methods such as heat-assisted magnetic recording (HAMR),
shingled magnetic recording (SMR), and helium-filled disk enclosures being used
to realize ever greater storage densities. In spite of the continuing improvements in
drive capacity, other aspects of HDD performance are hampered by physics.
First, disk transfer speed, the rate at which data can be read and written, does not
scale in proportion with disk capacity. Disk capacity scales with areal density (gigabits
stored per square inch), whereas transfer speed scales with linear density (bits per
inch). This means that if disk capacity grows by a factor of 4, transfer speed increases
by only a factor of 2. Consequently, current data center drives support maximum
data transfer speeds of 200–300 MB/s. To frame this another way, it takes more than
20 hours to read the entire contents of a 30 TB magnetic drive, assuming a transfer
speed of 300 MB/s.
A second major limitation is seek time. To access data, the drive must physically
relocate the read/write heads to the appropriate track on the disk. Third, in order
to find a particular piece of data on the disk, the disk controller must wait for that
data to rotate under the read/write heads. This leads to rotational latency. Typical
192
|
Chapter 6: Storage

