# The Decline of Complexity and the Rise of Easy-to-Use Data Tools

Paginas: 405-405

The Data Engineering Lifecycle Isn’t Going Away
While data science has received the bulk of the attention in recent years, data
engineering is rapidly maturing into a distinct and visible field. It’s one of the fastest-
growing careers in technology, with no signs of losing momentum. As companies
realize they first need to build a data foundation before moving to “sexier” things like
AI and ML, data engineering will continue growing in popularity and importance.
This progress centers around the data engineering lifecycle.
Some question whether increasingly simple tools and practices will lead to the dis‐
appearance of data engineers. This thinking is shallow, lazy, and shortsighted. As
organizations leverage data in new ways, new foundations, systems, and workflows
will be needed to address these needs. Data engineers sit at the center of designing,
architecting, building, and maintaining these systems. If tooling becomes easier to
use, data engineers will move up the value chain to focus on higher-level work. The
data engineering lifecycle isn’t going away anytime soon.
The Decline of Complexity and the Rise
of Easy-to-Use Data Tools
Simplified, easy-to-use tools continue to lower the barrier to entry for data engineer‐
ing. This is a great thing, especially given the shortage of data engineers we’ve dis‐
cussed. The trend toward simplicity will continue. Data engineering isn’t dependent
on a particular technology or data size. It’s also not just for large companies. In the
2000s, deploying “big data” technologies required a large team and deep pockets. The
ascendance of SaaS-managed services has largely removed the complexity of under‐
standing the guts of various “big data” systems. Data engineering is now something
that all companies can do.
Big data is a victim of its extraordinary success. For example, Google BigQuery, a
descendant of GFS and MapReduce, can query petabytes of data. Once reserved for
internal use at Google, this insanely powerful technology is now available to anybody
with a GCP account. Users simply pay for the data they store and query rather than
having to build a massive infrastructure stack. Snowflake, Amazon EMR, and many
other hyper-scalable cloud data solutions compete in the space and offer similar
capabilities.
The cloud is responsible for a significant shift in the usage of open source tools.
Even in the early 2010s, using open source typically entailed downloading the code
and configuring it yourself. Nowadays, many open source data tools are available
as managed cloud services that compete directly with proprietary services. Linux is
available preconfigured and installed on server instances on all major clouds. Server‐
less platforms like AWS Lambda and Google Cloud Functions allow you to deploy
380
|
Chapter 11: The Future of Data Engineering

