# CHUNK 8 (Paginas 141-160)


--- PAGINA 141 ---

Figure 13.9: After noticing that someone else’s video about my new company, Vygone, was getting
a lot of views, I paid the video owner so I could place my funnel’s link inside her video
description.
There are plenty of other ways to buy your way in; you just need to use your creativity. You
could pay people to create a video and post it on their channel for you. You could even pay
them to let you put a playlist with a video series on their channel. The ideas and opportunities
are endless!
STEP #6: FILL YOUR FUNNEL
Every video you post on YouTube will extend your reach, and if you take the time to optimize
them correctly, the videos will continue to drive traffic to you for the rest of your life. It all
starts with consistently publishing keyword-based discoverable videos to get you a spot on the
organic listings, as well as the Google search results. We use paid ads to place our ads on top
of the other videos that are ranked for our dream keywords and the videos of our Dream 100.
We will use the same paid ads strategy on these videos that you learned about in Secret #9:
we will put out prospecting ads to hook our dream clients, move them into the retargeting
buckets where we will turn them into traffic that we own, and then we will ascend them up
our value ladder.


--- PAGINA 142 ---

SECRET #14
AFTER THE SLAPS AND THE SNAPS
So what happens if you’re reading this book, and Facebook has recently been shut down by
the government for controlling too big of a monopoly or a new social platform is getting
traction and you want to figure out how to get in early before it’s too late? As you know, my
goal with this book is not to give you a fish, but it is to teach you how to fish. In my 15 years
online, I’ve watched as dozens of networks and hundreds of ads sources have come and gone.
With all this change, we’ve not only survived, but we’ve thrived. The reason we’ve been able
to weather the storms and get in front of the traffic trends is because of the principles you’ve
been learning in this book.
Even though we talked about it during the introduction of this section and you’ve seen it
conceptually over the last few chapters, in this chapter I want to give you the exact blueprint
we use as we look at every new traffic opportunity. For this example, I am going to apply the
Fill Your Funnel framework to grow and monetize my podcast. To do that, I need to apply this
framework to the Apple podcast directory. As I break down how to dominate the podcast
network, notice how we use the same framework in order to have success.
Figure 14.1: In this section, we’ll use the Fill Your Funnel framework to show how it relates to
podcasting.
STEP #1: UNDERSTAND THE HISTORY AND THE GOAL
Each show type and platform has its own positives and negatives, but of all the platforms,
podcasting is my personal favorite. It’s actually harder to grow subscribers on your podcast
than on any of the other platforms, but I believe the subscribers you do get are way more
valuable. When people listen to your podcast, they are plugging you into their ears during a
part of their day when you usually get to have their sole attention, such as when they’re
driving, working out in the gym, or lying in bed thinking. During these most intimate
moments, you have the ability to tell stories, break false beliefs, and really serve people in a
manner that I don’t think you can do with any other type of media.
Podcasting tends to attract a more affluent audience and people who have a higher net
worth. In fact, a recent survey showed that podcast listeners are 45 percent more likely to
have a net household income of over $250,000 per year.43 That tells me a few things. First, if
you want to increase your own personal net income, you should be listening to podcasts
instead of radio. Second, your dream customers, the cream of the crop, are those on your list
who also listen to podcasts.


--- PAGINA 143 ---

When someone comes into my world (i.e., joins my list), one of the first things I try to get
them to do is to subscribe to my Marketing Secrets podcast. If I can take them off whatever
platform they found me, have them leave their inbox, and have them plug me into their ears,
I’ll be able to have more of an influence than anything else I could possibly do.
STEP #2: FIND YOUR DREAM 100 ON THIS PLATFORM
Podcasting is one of the easiest platforms to find your Dream 100 on, because almost every
podcast is published in the Apple podcast directory, so you don’t have to look far. Most people
will also include their podcast in other directories like Stitcher, iHeartRadio, and Spotify, but
because it’s rare that a podcast would be listed on one of those directories and not on Apple, I
do all my searches on Apple.
Apple’s ranking algorithm for podcasts is currently based on three things. First (and most
important) is the number of new subscribers. The more new subscribers you get, the higher
your podcast will rank. That is the number-one factor and trumps the other two, so much so
that my main goal is to get people to go and subscribe. We do contests, give away prizes, and
talk about it in every show episode. The other two ranking factors are number of downloads
and the number of new comments. Both of those are important, but not nearly as important as
the number of new subscribers. If you focus on that, then the comments and the downloads
will follow.
To find your Dream 100, Apple will show you 200 of their “top” podcasts for each category,
and this gives you a huge list to use for your Dream 100. Even those that aren’t listed in the
top 200 can still have thousands of downloads per episode. I also recommend searching for
other keywords to find shows that for some reason have a lot of downloads and legacy
subscribers but aren’t getting new subscribers, and therefore aren’t showing up high in the
rankings. They can have huge faithful followings even though they aren’t ranked in the top
200.
Get to know your Dream 100 personally and they will become your strategic board on how
to get and keep your podcast ranked. Share with them your wins and what’s working for you,
and they’ll be more likely to share their wins with you as well. When the platforms have ups
and downs, it’s very useful to be able to talk to others in your same market on the same
platform who are testing the algorithms and trying to figure them out as well.
STEP #3: IDENTIFY THE PUBLISHING STRATEGY AND CREATE YOUR PUBLISHING PLAN
The strategy with podcasting is pretty simple compared to other platforms: you just have to
decide which type of podcast you want to host. My guess is that if you listen to a lot of
podcasts, then you probably have your own favorite format. Some people love interview-style
shows, others would rather use the time to just share their own thoughts, yet still others like
to do a blend of both. I don’t think it really matters which format you want to do, as long as
you pick something that you can be consistent with.
When I first launched my original Marketing in Your Car podcast, I did it because I knew
that every day I was going to be in my car for 10 minutes. Therefore, I knew I could commit to
recording at least three episodes a week on my phone. If it wasn’t something simple, I knew I
wouldn’t be consistent. I have other friends who love interview-style shows, and thus needed
to build out their own little studio in their house. After they had the studio, they knew that
they would be consistent. Whatever type of podcast you choose, make sure you set up your
environment for success.
As with most things in life, consistency is the key to having success with a podcast. Podcasts
have a compounding effect. Each episode that you publish will hook new fans, who will then
go backward and binge-listen to your show from the beginning. Because of that, each
episode’s audience will be bigger than the last, and each show will indirectly promote your
past shows. For example, all the episodes I published when no one was listening six years ago
still get hundreds of listens per day from the people who are finding out about my show today.
Your Publishing Plan
As with all the other publishing plans, you can follow them to a T, or you can change them to
make them work for you. With podcasting, you’ll want to make sure you choose a consistent
publishing schedule. Your listeners will come to anticipate when your upcoming shows will be
released, so help build that trust by publishing your show on the same day(s) each week.


--- PAGINA 144 ---

Figure 14.2: Use this publishing plan to see at a glance where you should focus your efforts on
podcasting.
STEP #4: WORK YOUR WAY IN
The one thing that’s a little harder with podcasting than any other platform is there isn’t a
really simple way to promote and build a podcast, at least not for most people. You can’t just
put out a good episode and hope that people share it organically like all the other social
channels, and most people don’t go into Apple Podcasts daily searching for new stuff. The
average podcast listener subscribes to six shows, and that’s it. Usually, they start listening to a
show based on a recommendation from a friend. If they like the experience, they’ll search for
a few other related shows. They will “max out” their available listening time with a few new
shows, which will become the shows they consume from that point in time moving forward.
Typically, the only way they will add a new show is if it’s recommended by a friend or if they
hear about it on another podcast.
This is why many people who have tried podcasting stop because it’s so hard to get the
initial traction and long-term growth. For those that understand the principles you’ve learned
so far in this book, though, it’s actually really easy.
Our strategy to grow our podcast following: build our Dream 100 list of podcasts that our
dream customers were already listening to, and then go and work our way in. We messaged
every podcast that we could find in our industry and asked them if I could be interviewed on
their podcast. When I was interviewed, I was asked the question that almost every podcast
host asks: “For those who have enjoyed this episode, how can they learn more about you?”
And my answer was always the same: “I have my new podcast called Marketing Secrets, and if
you go to MarketingSecrets.com or search for me here in Apple Podcasts, you can subscribe
and get my best marketing secrets twice a week!”
And just like we thought, the podcast listeners who heard the interview and connected with
me came in droves. They loved podcasts, they loved to rate and review podcasts, they shared
their favorite podcasts with their friends, and they did all the things that we had been trying
to educate our non-podcasts listeners to do without any coaching.
Recently I watched with fascination as the very famous podcaster Jordan Harbinger (who
had one of the biggest podcasts in the world called The Art of Charm that was getting over 4
million monthly downloads) got into a fight with his business partner and eventually got
kicked out of his own show.44 I felt so bad, knowing how much work he must have spent over
the past few years growing a podcast to that size and then losing it all. Then one day I was
listening to my favorite podcast, Mixergy. On it, Andrew Warner interviewed Jordan about his
podcast, how he grew it initially, and how he lost it.
Then at the end of the show, Andrew asked him what listeners should do if they wanted to
follow Jordan after the show. Jordan suggested they should subscribe to his new show called
The Jordan Harbinger Show.
Right then, I realized that he was doing the exact same thing that I had been doing. He


--- PAGINA 145 ---

understood that all his faithful future followers were already listening to podcasts, and he just
had to go out there and convince them that he was worth listening to. Then I started to watch
as Jordan hit the podcast circuit and was on show after show after show. In just a matter of
months, Jordan’s new show had passed over 3 million downloads.
STEP #5: BUY YOUR WAY IN
This next section almost didn’t make it into the book because I was too blind to see it until last
week. My second favorite podcast is called Business Wars. Last week, at the end of one of
their episodes, they took me to a mini episode that they had just published. It started with the
show host’s voice saying that they had a very special episode that the Business Wars team
wanted to share from a guy named Jordan Harbinger!45 Then they told their whole audience
that they were going to play a few highlights from Jordan’s show that they thought everyone
would like. Finally, they encouraged everyone who was listening to go and subscribe to
Jordan’s podcast if they wanted more information!
As you can probably guess, I started to freak out, jumping around, as I realized for the first
time that you could buy ads in other people’s podcasts to promote your podcast! We are now
buying ads as well as full episodes on the podcasts that our dream customers are listening to.
STEP #6: FILL YOUR FUNNEL
Now that you have your podcast and you know how to grow your following, I want to spend a
little time talking about how you can leverage your podcast and other people’s podcasts to fill
your funnel. Even if you don’t have your own podcast show, you can still leverage this
powerful platform to get traffic.
The strategies to promote your funnels are the same as how we grow the show. Every time I
have a new book launch, a new webinar, or a new funnel that I quickly want to get a lot of
traffic for, one of the best ways to do so is to hit up the podcast circuit. You can message hosts
and see if they can get you on their show. Once you’re on, when they ask you the magic
question about how people can learn more about you, simply tell them to get a copy of your
book, register for your webinar, or get your free lead magnet. Then give them the URL of your
funnel.
You can also purchase podcast ads to promote your podcast or any of your other funnels.
Recently, we ran a few tests for paid ads on John Lee Dumas’s Entrepreneur on Fire podcast.
They did so well that we ended up buying an entire year’s worth of ads from him! We’re also
going back to the shows that I did interviews on that had the biggest impact on sales, and
buying ads from them. Lastly, we’re buying ads on Mixergy and other podcasts that I love.
Some podcasts run their ad department in house, where you can contact the show directly.
They’ll usually have a media kit that will show you information such as the demographics of
the show and how many downloads they get per episode. Many podcasters work with agencies
to sell their ads. Most agencies will sponsor many different shows and they can open the doors
to many other podcasts that you may not have known even existed.
A NOTE ABOUT OTHER PLATFORMS
I desperately wanted to write chapters in this book about some of the other platforms that
were market leaders at one time, like Twitter, Snapchat, and LinkedIn. There is still so much
opportunity on all these platforms, and some of them may come back and beat out the ones
that I did show in this book.
I also had a desire to talk about some of the newer platforms that I think are going to be
huge, like Twitch or TikTok, or even a platform such as Pinterest that many ClickFunnels users
get the majority of their traffic from. But I knew that if I tried to write a chapter on every
exciting platform, this book would be over 2,000 pages long. In addition, it would have felt
more like me trying to give people “fish” than teaching them how to fish, because these
platforms have only existed during a quick snapshot in time.
I picked Facebook, Instagram, Google, and YouTube so you could see the strategy behind
how we attack each network as they come out. With that knowledge, you now have a process
you can follow for any new network you decide to jump into and a process for how to recover
during the next Google slap or Zanos snap.


--- PAGINA 146 ---

SECRET #15
CONVERSATION DOMINATION
Before we go further, I do want to give you one word of warning. Many people think that they
have to be on all platforms to be successful. That is not true. In fact, the majority of the times,
the opposite is true. Often, people will try to publish and buy ads on all the platforms and
never get great at publishing on any of them, or their ad dollar is spread so thin across all of
them that they never actually get any traction.
For each business, there should be one primary channel that you focus on. It will likely be
the same platform that you’ve already created your show on during Secret #7. This will also
probably be the same platform that you spend most of your own personal time on, because
you’ve been a consumer of media on that platform, so it will be easier for you to see how to
become a producer of media on it as well. Right now, all your focus, from your Dream 100 to
paying for ads, should be on that one platform.
I can already hear some of you saying, “But, Russell, you’re publishing on every platform. I
see your podcast, your YouTube videos, your blogs, your Facebook Lives, and your Instagram
Stories. You’re not practicing what you preach.”
I want you to understand that while I do publish on all these platforms now, I didn’t at first.
If I had, I never would have become “Russell Brunson,” whatever that means. Five years ago
when we first launched ClickFunnels, we picked one platform and doubled down on it, and for
us, that was Facebook. We focused on building our Dream 100 there, understanding the
strategy and creating our publishing plan. We then worked hard to “work our way in” and
“buy our way in” to each person in our Dream 100. It was a long hard process that helped us
to build a company that did over $100 million in sales before we started publishing on
platform number two. About that time, we decided to take this little podcast that I had been
publishing for a while and start working on it. We had to find our Dream 100, figure out the
strategy, work our way in, buy our way in, and create a publishing plan. As you can tell, the
pattern repeats itself.
And then we repeated the process with Instagram, and later our blog. Each new channel
required a new Dream 100, new strategies, and a new team. Had we done them all at once,
we would have crumbled under the weight of it all. So for those of you who are reading this
section now, know that for you, if you were sitting in front of me right now, I’d have you pick
one platform, build your show on it, get to work on your Dream 100, and then only focus on
that for at least the next 12 months of your life.
The other thing I often hear is: “But, Russell, I’m just going to record a video, and then I’ll
post the video to YouTube, rip the audio for my podcast, and transcribe the audio for my blog
post. I’ll just create the content once, and then I’ll post it everywhere.” While the concept is
very sexy, and there are many people selling this as the best way to be everywhere at all
times, by doing it you are missing the understanding that each platform has its own unique
language. Usually content that works really well on one platform will fail when copied to
another one.
People on Facebook want to hear your personal stories, talk about current events, and watch
you go live. People who listen to podcasts are used to listening to longer-form interviews.
People who read blogs are looking for longer-form content that is usually structured in a list
with lots of examples and details. People on Instagram want images and to see behind the
scenes of your journey and your life. Lastly, people on YouTube are looking for keyword-driven
how-tos and entertainment. If you just rip your keyword-heavy YouTube video and put the
audio on your podcast, it will seem strange to someone who listens to podcasts, and really
weird when someone reads it as a status update on your Facebook wall.
Instead, focus on one platform until you’ve mastered it, which means that you’ll know your
Dream 100, your content strategy will be systemized and happening on autopilot, and you’ll
have a process in place to work your way in and the people in place to start buying your way
in. After that is completed, then you can and should add in the next layer. Eventually, you’ll
want to be omnipresent on each platform. Personally, what I really want is for someone to pick
up their phone, and no matter which app they open, the first person they see will be me. But if
you make that jump too quickly, it will more than likely cripple you before you have a chance


--- PAGINA 147 ---

to really build your following.
THE PROCESS TO ACHIEVE CONVERSATION DOMINATION
I’ve seen people try to be omnipresent on every platform, and they usually try to do it in one of
three ways.
First, they publish a primary show and then publish that same information in different
formats to every network. You can get some success with this, but your efforts will be watered
down, at best. The second way is publishing completely unique content on each platform.
While this is possible, it usually requires building a huge team of people to accomplish it, and
it will take a ton of your own personal time. For a few years, this is what I did with my team.
But after a while I got tired of producing so much stuff all the time, until one day I had an
idea.
What if we created a master show that we streamed on Facebook and Instagram Live that
was scripted out to have all the individual assets we needed for each core platform? Then we
could prepare all week for the show and stream it live, where our team would have all the
assets they needed to make unique content that fit the native language for each platform. And
that’s when the Marketing Secrets Live show was born.
Figure 15.1: To create content for my entire team to repurpose, I go live once a week to create a
master show.
I look at this show as if it’s a talk show like The Tonight Show. I like to go live, because the
energy when you go live versus a pre-recorded video always comes off better. I’ll start the
show and spend a few minutes waiting for people to jump on the live feed, talk about a few
current events, and then I begin the official show.
Monologue: I start with my monologue, similar to how most talk shows start, where the host
gets up, tells some stories, and tries to connect with the audience. My monologue is
structured very similar to how I do my Marketing Secrets podcast. When the monologue is
over, this piece of content will become a future episode on the podcast.
Interview: I will typically interview someone on the show, either in the office or over the
phone. This interview matches the native language that people are used to listening to on a
podcast, so in post-production we’ll turn this interview into another podcast episode. The
monologue and interview become the two podcast episodes that I post every week.
Q & A Collabs: Before we start the live show, I send a few of my Dream 100 a question by
video on my phone, where I ask them to respond to the question and send a question back to
me. I show their question live and give them my response, and then I ask them my question


--- PAGINA 148 ---

and show their video response. After the show is done, we post the edited video on IGTV and
tag them, and then they will post it to their IGTV and tag me back.
Top 10 List: I pull a “David Letterman” and share a top list. The list I am sharing is going to
become my skyscraper article for my blog. I may share the “21 Best Things You Can Post on
Twitter to Get More Followers,” or “My 13 Favorite Squeeze Pages for 2020.” I show an image
of each item and talk briefly about it, and when the segment is done, my team will take it and
quickly use my explanations to write the skyscraper post in my voice and start the link-
building process.
How-Tos: I look at the keywords that I want to rank for on YouTube and do a segment
showing two to three different ways to do things. Every how-to will become a YouTube video
targeting a specific keyword phrase that we will post and then rank.
Image Stories: I go through my JK5 categories and show at least one image per category and
tell the story behind it. That gives my team a better understanding about the image’s meaning
when they are writing the captions and trying to get people to engage with it.
Quotes: I like to start wrapping up the show by sharing my favorite quotes and explaining
why they are my favorites. That way if my team turns them into quote cards, they will have
good explanations that they can use from my own words to post in the captions.
Final Thoughts: This is one piece that I don’t repost anywhere. I just remember seeing Jerry
Springer do it on his show back in the day (yes, I used to watch Jerry Springer, please don’t
judge me), and it was the thing that would get me to watch the full show.46 I want to keep
something special for our live viewers to keep them engaged until the end.
When the show is over, we quickly record all the information that my team will need to
bridge together the content for each platform. For example, I will record quick introductions
for the two podcast episodes with “Hey, everyone, this is Russell Brunson and welcome to the
Marketing Secrets podcast. In this episode, I am going to interview _________ about _________.
Be sure to listen to the end to find out his number-one secret about _________.”
I will also record intros like this for the YouTube videos, setting up the “how-to” they are
about to watch by saying something like, “Hey, this is Russell Brunson and I want to welcome
you to my channel. Today, I’m going to show you guys how to _________, but before I do, be
sure to subscribe to my channel and turn on the notifications so you don’t miss my next
amazing video that is coming out soon. Now let’s jump into the video.”
I may also record a quick outro for these videos that says something like, “Thanks again for
watching this video. Be sure to like the video, and post in the comments telling me about the
last time you [something related to the video].”
By creating this show once per week, my team has all the customized content that they need
for each platform.
PUBLISHING AND DREAM 100 ON EACH PLATFORM
Can you see how you can use this master show and leverage it to create the content for your
primary show as well as all your secondary shows? Even with that plan, I wouldn’t try to
launch on all five platforms at one time. Go about it slowly and methodically. As you decide to
branch into each new platform, follow the steps in the Fill Your Funnel framework:
Step #1: Understand the history and the goal of the new platform
Step #2: Find and model your Dream 100
Step #3: Identify the publishing strategy and create your publishing plan
Step #4: Work your way in
Step #5: Buy your way in
Step #6: Fill your funnel
YOUR DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS AND TRAFFIC THAT YOU OWN
The last and arguably most important step in your strategy is the promotion of your primary
show and secondary, supporting content. Publishing on each platform will give you limited
distribution to your fans and followers, but in order to help stimulate growth of whatever show


--- PAGINA 149 ---

you have just published (and the more you can push eyeballs to the new episode), the more
each platform will reward you for that work.
Outside of your friends, fans, subscribers, and followers on each platform, we have a few
other distribution channels that we’ve been working on building.
Email: Email is the traffic that we own, and it’s one of our core distribution channels. After
people have moved through your Soap Opera Sequences, they should be on your daily Seinfeld
broadcast list. This list is the one that you will promote your new show on as soon as it’s ready
to direct a huge surge of new people to your content and help stimulate its growth. Typically
these are the people who have the best relationship with you, so having them viewing, liking,
commenting, and sharing early after you launch the show will tell the algorithm of any
network that this content is good and should be rewarded with more organic growth.
Messenger: While you’re renting your Messenger list from Facebook, and they could take it
away if they don’t like how you’re publishing to it, it is still the most powerful channel today.
The open rates and click-through rates are second to none. Using your Messenger list to
promote your new content is one of the fastest ways to boost your new episode.
Desktop Push: If you’ve been building a list with desktop push notifications, it’s another
great way to promote your content when it goes live.
Make sure the part of your content launch strategy is to use your own distribution channels
to promote your content on each platform as it goes live. This will always give it the best
chance of getting an organic lift free from the platforms as well as getting it ready for the paid
ads that you want to run toward it. Having views, comments, and likes before the paid ads get
turned on will make each dollar you spend more effective.
Here is a breakdown of how we run our conversation domination publishing plan that allows
us to be in front of everyone on each channel they subscribe to. To help you prepare for your
own show, please go to TrafficSecrets.com/resources to print off a fill-in-the-blank outline for
your own use.
Figure 15.2 Use this publishing plan to see at a glance where you should focus your efforts in
order to achieve conversation domination.


--- PAGINA 150 ---

SECTION THREE
GROWTH HACKING
Welcome to the third section of this book! I’m so excited to have you here. So far, you’ve
learned who your dream customers are, where they’re congregating, how to get your hooks in
front of them, and how to turn all your traffic into traffic that you own. In Section Two, we
talked about the framework we use to get traffic from any advertising platforms to get
unlimited traffic into your funnels. We also showed you how to create publishing plans so you
could consistently show up in front of your dream customers. Now, we finally get to move into
growth hacking.
What is growth hacking, though? I’m smiling to myself, because when I got started online 15
years ago, we didn’t have Facebook. The Google slap had crippled most of our companies, so
we had to figure out other ways to get traffic into our funnels. We tried and tested everything.
Some things were super “black hat,” and while they weren’t anything bad, they were frowned
on by companies like Google. For instance, we would set up cloaked pages that would trick the
search engine’s spiders into thinking our pages were perfectly optimized for search. However,
when real people (who didn’t come from a search engine spider’s IP address) would show up,
they would see a completely different squeeze page that was optimized for conversion. We
built link farms to get our pages ranked at all costs. We figured out ways to get emails past
spam filters and delivered into our subscribers’ inboxes.
But it wasn’t just black-hat techniques that we played with; we also spent countless hours
working on getting free PR that would push people from TV, radio, and top online news sites
into our funnels. We tried everything we could think of: black hat, white hat, and about a
thousand shades of gray in between.
For us, it was a battle of life or death. If we didn’t figure out how to get eyeballs to our
pages, we didn’t eat. All the tricks and hacks that we tried were looked down on by “real”
businesses. Some called us spammers, while others were harsher and called us scammers. We
didn’t know what to call it, so we just called it “internet marketing.”
Those are the days that I’ll never forget. It was the Wild West, and we were there early, way
before our time. I played on this playground for almost a decade before what we did was
considered cool. When I first heard the term “growth hacking,” some writers had published
articles talking about some of the fast-growth startup companies like Dropbox, Uber, PayPal,
and Airbnb.
Once people shared their amazing growth-hacking techniques for quickly growing their
companies, I started to laugh out loud. Every “hack” they shared was a basic technique we
had been doing for over a decade! Many of these hacks were the same things that others used
to shame us for, but they had now become cool. Because of ClickFunnels’s rapid growth, many
people have told me we are a unicorn because we have such a unique growth strategy, which
is that we don’t grow through funding; we grow by hacking.
In this last section, I’ll share with you the most powerful white-hat growth-hacking
techniques that we still use to this day. Even though these appear to be new growth hacks to
many, we’ve been mastering them for the past 15 years. In truth, our success comes from
going backward, diving deep into the playbook that we wrote before the term growth hacking
was even cool. Have fun with these hacks, as they’re incredibly powerful and will give you an
advantage against anyone who wants to compete against you.


--- PAGINA 151 ---

SECRET #16
THE FUNNEL HUB
When I first started playing this internet marketing game, there were two competing teams:
“branding” and “direct response.” I was a kid who wanted to play, but I wasn’t sure whose
team I should join.
The people on the branding team made some really good points. They believed that
marketing should focus heavily on clean design, connection with your audience, and creating a
feeling that enticed people to come back to buy from you over and over.
The direct response team had some very solid counter arguments that made a lot of sense to
me too. They focused their marketing efforts on getting conversions, creating processes where
you could track every advertising dollar you spend, and working toward getting an immediate,
positive ROI.
In the end, though, because I didn’t have a ton of money to build a brand and was financing
everything out of my own pocket, I agreed more with the direct response marketers and
joined their team. I became obsessed with conversion. I created pages, wrote copy, and ran
ads that could out-convert anyone. People would come, they would buy, and then they would
leave; those who bought usually never returned. However, as long as the money I spent on ads
was less than the money I made, I was winning the game.
But then Google changed. The PPC (pay per click) slap came, and my ads disappeared
overnight. The realization that all my cash flow had dried up scared me enough to try almost
anything to get traffic into my funnels. It started me on a journey to search for any trick or
hack I could try that anyone had reported was working.
From the dozens of things we were trying, one seemed really promising. At that time, the
search engines valued backlinks that came from news and PR websites. Writing and
submitting a press release was an easy way to get an awesome link that would help rank your
website, and, if your press release was good, you could actually get picked up by real press.
How cool would that be? I thought. One of my products could be on TV!
I was in. I bought the courses to learn the strategies, Dream 100’d all the PR sites I could
find, built a list, and wrote and submitted press releases. Some were free and others were
paid, but 100 percent of the press releases I submitted were rejected.
I didn’t know what I was doing wrong. It wasn’t that some of them were rejected; all of them
were rejected. I started contacting the sites’ editors to find out why they all said no. It took a
while to get through the gatekeepers, but after getting inside, they all told me a similar
version of the same story: “At the end of the press release, you link to your website, but
there’s nothing there.”
“What do you mean ‘there’s nothing there’? That’s the squeeze page for my funnel. It’s one
of the highest converting pages I’ve ever created,” I responded.
“I don’t understand what it is. It’s definitely not a website and looks like some type of scam,”
they replied.
Scam? That page had made me more money than any website that their other press releases
had linked to. In the end, though, they didn’t care. They were used to seeing traditional
websites. For me to be a legitimate business in their eyes, I needed a legitimate website.
I began to funnel hack the websites that the other press releases were linking to. While most
of them had beautiful brands, none of them was structured for conversion. The direct-
response marketing legends whom I learned from would have openly mocked me for even
looking at these beautiful, low-converting websites. I hated everything about these websites,
but at that point, I would have done almost anything to figure out how to win the game and
get their traffic. If it meant I needed to build a brand, I was going to do it.
I dusted off some of the old branding books that I had buried at the back of my bookshelf to
see what I could learn. At first, the thought of creating anything that wasn’t focused on
optimization and ROI made my skin crawl. However, I knew that if I wanted to get access to
other people’s traffic, I would have to play their game.
A few days into my study, I realized that by picking the direct response team, I had thrown
the branding baby out with the bathwater. Direct response gave me the ability to bring in


--- PAGINA 152 ---

customers profitably, but branding was what would get them to come back again and again.
DotCom Secrets is based on my foundation in direct response, and Expert Secrets is focused
on what I learned in my journey of branding and storytelling. I now believe that having both
branding and direct response blended together is essential in today’s world, even more so
than when I first started experimenting.
To get the approval from the PR agencies, I decided to create a new website I could link to
instead of replacing my funnels. This new website would be used as a type of brand hub,
where people could learn more about me, my company, our products, and how we could help
them. It looked more like the traditional website that people were used to seeing, so my hope
was the press would be more willing to link to it. Once you clicked into this brand hub, the
links inside directed people into our front-end funnels.
Figure 16.1: To get your funnel (left) accepted by PR agencies, you can create a funnel hub (right)
that has more content on it, yet it still drives people into your funnels.
At the time, it wasn’t very sophisticated, but it worked. I resubmitted my press releases and
they started getting accepted. After hundreds of press releases had been accepted, my links
increased, my hub moved up in SEO ranking, and traffic started to flow. Because I had this
site, it gave me more credibility and I was able to get more traditional media to pick us up.
THE BIRTH OF THE FUNNEL HUB
I wish that I could say that over the past 15 years I put a huge focus on the brand hub site that
I had created, but unfortunately, I didn’t. While I leveraged it to get traditional media, I never
really understood its full potential.
Recently, two of my Inner Circle members, Mike Schmidt and AJ Rivera, wanted my opinion
on something they had created called the “Funnel Hub.” I trust them both a lot, so I blocked
out some time to hear what they had to say. Within about three minutes of them talking, I
knew that they had figured out the evolution of what I had tried to do 10 years earlier with my
brand hub site. They had thought it through at such a deep level that I had them build a funnel
hub for me as well, which I continue to use to this day.
In this chapter, I’ll be quoting from the conversation I had with Mike and AJ to help you
understand why a funnel hub should be a core part of your traffic strategy.
The Shadow Funnel
Mike and AJ showed me some stats on a few of the funnels that we drive a lot of paid ads to.
He had talked to my traffic team previously, so he had an idea of about how much money we
were spending.


--- PAGINA 153 ---

“Between these four funnels, you guys spent $485,927 last month alone in ads on Facebook,
Google, YouTube, and Instagram to sell your products,” they stated.
“Yes, and we were profitable on every one of those dollars. All four of those funnels broke
even immediately, and we usually pull a profit, so technically it didn’t cost me $485,000. I
made money and got a ton of new customers into my value ladder.”
“We know,” they said, “You’re the king of funnels. We’re not here to talk to you about that.
We’re actually here to talk to you about the shadow sales funnel. The $485,000 that you spent
sending people into your core funnels created a huge shadow funnel that you’re not
monetizing. In fact, many of your competitors are building their companies on the back of your
hard work, and it’s not costing them anything.”
Figure 16.2: When we create a funnel, we assume most people will simply buy our product after
seeing it.
“What? I’m confused. What’s a shadow funnel?”
“The shadow funnel is the traffic that’s created in the wake of all the traffic that you’re
sending to your funnels. For example, when someone sees an ad for any of your products,
you’re capturing the percentage of people that buy immediately. However, there’s actually a
bigger percentage of people who see your ad, and, regardless if they click through or not,
don’t buy. Instead, they might open a new tab and search for you in Google. This is the
beginning of the shadow funnel.
“Other times, they might hear a friend talk about you, hear you mentioned in social or
traditional media, hear you on a podcast, or hear one of your fans or followers talking about
your work. In any case, there are an unlimited number of ways that this earned traffic and
paid traffic that had not immediately converted falls into your shadow funnel. Right now,
you’re just letting it fall by the wayside and hoping that somehow they’ll find you again in the
future.”
Figure 16.3: What actually happens is most people need convincing before they buy, so they go
through a “shadow funnel,” researching for more information about you and your products.
I was getting sick to my stomach thinking about how much traffic this might have actually
been for me.
Mike and AJ continued, “First, they’ll type in your name, then your company’s name, and
finally the product’s name. They’re looking for ratings, reviews, and anything they can find to
prove your credibility. They’ll visit your blogs and social media accounts, including your
Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter profiles. They’ll join your lists, read your emails, and listen


--- PAGINA 154 ---

to your podcasts. From this research, they’ll start to form an opinion of your company. At this
point, the ad that started them on this journey is long gone, and when they’re ready to move
forward toward your value ladder, they’ll actively search for information on where to start.”
Then they showed me the number 251,680.
“What’s this?” I asked.
“That’s how many people worldwide in the past 12 months have searched for ‘Russell
Brunson,’” they said. “That’s the shadow funnel, and that’s just your name. That doesn’t
include your company or product names, and as you continue to get more momentum, your
shadow funnel will grow. Many people try to rank for their dream keywords, but they typically
forget about their own branded names.
Figure 16.4: As I was busy trying to rank for non-branded keywords, I didn’t realize that over
250,000 people were searching for brand keywords like my name. Because I hadn’t set up funnels
for these branded terms, I was losing out on tons of traffic.
“When they search for your name, they land on random pages or funnels, and you have no
control over this user experience. They might land on a page that is in the middle of your
value ladder, and they won’t be ready for it. Or, even worse, they might see pages from your
competitors trying to leverage the hard work and the money that you have been spending! You
need to take control of the shadow funnels that you’ve created and control what people are
finding when they search.”
YOUR FUNNEL HUB
After Mike and AJ scared me with their shadow funnel discussion, they started to talk to me
more about the funnel hub.
“From the outside,” they said, “it looks kind of like a website, but the strategy is completely
different. Its goal is to organize all the funnels and offers in your value ladder in one place.
When people start searching for you, it’ll let you control what they find when they search;
inevitably, it will help you ascend people up your value ladder. It’s a central hub that organizes
all of your funnels and offers and gives you the look and feel of a more traditional website to
help build your credibility and magnify your authority.”
They probably could tell I was loving everything they said, because at that point, they
smiled. “You know what else? In Expert Secrets, you told us to create a lot of things as we
were designing our tribe. Things like:
Who is your Attractive Character?
What is your future-based cause?
What is your customer manifesto?
What does your value ladder look like?
What do you stand for, and what do you stand against?
“We always had those on a Google Doc, and we kind of knew what they were, but our
followers never knew. The funnel hub is the place where we gather all these things together so


--- PAGINA 155 ---

people who are looking for us can quickly understand who we are and how we can serve
them.”
Then they said, “You’re publishing on so many platforms—your blog, podcast, YouTube
channel, Facebook pages, and Instagram accounts. Your funnel hub can become your brand
stream to organize all your media in one place. This way, your followers can find all your
published content from all your platforms in one place.”
HOW TO CREATE YOUR FUNNEL HUB
As you can probably tell in this part of the story, I was sold on creating my funnel hub. You can
see my active funnel hub at MarketingSecrets.com. I now build a funnel hub for each core
company that I create.
Because most funnel hubs have a blog built into them, as well as pulling in multiple types of
RSS feeds and other types of media, we typically do not build them on ClickFunnels (although
you could if you weren’t going to blog). We built ours in WordPress, which, in addition to being
the most popular content management platform in the world, is free.
Here is the basic layout of a funnel hub.
Figure 16.5: To build your funnel hub, you can add features such as a blog, RSS feed, social posts,
and front-end funnels.
Leveraging the funnel hub to take advantage of all your shadow traffic, earned media,
traditional press, and word-of-mouth advertising can be huge. It’s simple to set up when you
get started, and, as your brand grows, your funnel hub will then be ready to capture all the
traffic.


--- PAGINA 156 ---

SECRET #17
OTHER PEOPLE’S DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS
I’m going to share a little secret with you. I have a lot of entrepreneur friends who watch
Shark Tank (as they should), and they believe for some reason that each shark has the Midas
touch where any business they touch will magically turn into gold. You can see this belief in
every pitch given inside the Shark Tank. Entrepreneurs are willing to give up huge
percentages of their companies with the hope that one of the sharks touching their company
alone will cause it to explode.
I love Shark Tank. In fact, I’ve watched pretty much every episode of Shark Tank and its
overseas sister show, Dragons’ Den. (Yes, I’ve watched all the Canadian and U.K. versions as
well.) I even ripped copies of Japan’s version, The Tigers of Money, but I couldn’t understand
a word anyone said. Regardless, I’m a shark, dragon, and tiger nerd, and I watch closely the
types of deals that each shark takes. For this example, I’m going to focus on the U.S. version
of Shark Tank and some of the sharks you’re probably more familiar with.
Daymond John: He built up the famous brand FUBU and spent his youth building a
distribution channel to sell clothing and other similar items to retail.47
Lori Greiner: She’s created over 700 retail products and built up a distribution channel to
sell products on TV through QVC, as well as infomercials. She has also built strong
distribution channels with most major retailers.48
Mark Cuban: He built up and sold Broadcast.com for $5.6 billion. He also spent decades
building online and offline media distribution channels, which included his purchase of the
Landmark Theaters in 2003.49
I could go on and on with all the other sharks, but I’ll stop with just these three to illustrate
my point. As you watch the entrepreneurs pitch the sharks, notice which deals each of the
sharks bite on. Rarely is it a matter of them picking any business knowing that their Midas
touch will magically make it successful. On the contrary, they pick businesses based on
whether or not they can plug them into their pre-built distribution channels.
Think about it. With every clothing deal that you see, yes, the sharks will talk about it, but if
Lori can’t see it on TV, or if Mark doesn’t have an influencer with their own followers
(distribution channel) that he can instantly plug it into, they’ll find a way to say no. But when
Daymond sees a clothing deal, he knows that in just one phone call, he can plug that product
into his existing distribution channel and will get paid from that connection for the rest of his
life.
The same thing happens when someone pitches a product that would be a good fit for Lori’s
distribution channel. Notice how her eyes light up when she can “see this product on TV” or
“picture this at Bed Bath & Beyond.” She owns a distribution channel, and if the product is a
good fit, she plugs it in.
The same is true with Mark and every other shark or dragon who has ever been on the show.
They each have built and mastered one distribution channel, and they’re looking for products
they can plug into it. That’s the big secret.
People often ask me which types of businesses I invest in or which partnerships I do, and my
choices are 100 percent based on the distribution channels that I know and understand. If I
don’t know where someone should buy their traffic, or which lists they should rent, or who
could get their site ranked, or who could make their video go viral, I’ll never touch the project.
I only take on projects that I know will work with 100 percent certainty, and which I know will
work because I already have a distribution channel in place for them.
I shared this because you need to understand that each of your Dream 100 has a
distribution channel; that’s why they’re on your Dream 100 list. Each person has the Midas
touch, and it’s your job to figure out how you can plug your products into their distribution
channels.


--- PAGINA 157 ---

DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL #1: EMAIL SOLO ADS
We spent the whole first section of this book focusing on how you can build up your own
distribution channel by converting traffic that you earn and buy into traffic that you own (your
own list). There are hundreds of people in almost every market who have already built up
their own email lists, and one of the easiest ways to quickly increase your traffic is to buy ads
in their email lists.
When I’m looking for email lists to buy ads in, I’m traditionally looking for a solo publisher,
someone who has already created their own brand and list, where I can pay them to send out
an email talking about my products or services. You can also reach out to bigger brands that
you can pay to send out ads in their newsletters.
The solo publishers are likely already on your Dream 100, and it can be a simple process to
ask them if they are willing to sell a solo ad in their newsletter. The ones who’ve had
experience with this will typically say yes and have some sort of base pricing. Bigger brands
will usually have an online media kit that lists their prices if you want to buy an ad in their
lists or on their websites.
You can also find a lot of advertising opportunities in email newsletters by searching on
Google. I’ll often type in “[my niche] email advertising” or “[my niche] online media kit,” and I
can usually find publishers that will sell me a place in their email lists. I always join their lists
for a few weeks before I buy any ad so I can see how they treat their list. If they only send tons
of promotions, then I figure they beat up their list pretty badly and they’re probably not the
type of list I want to rent. However, if they send out good stuff and have a good relationship
with their list, then I’ll contact them for a media kit. Not all clicks are equal. Fewer clicks from
a newsletter where someone has a good relationship with the publisher will always be better
than more clicks from someone who has a bad relationship with their audience.
I wish I could give you a set pricing that you’ll typically pay, but it almost always ends up in
a negotiation, so keep in mind that their rates are usually negotiable. They say, “suckers pay
rate card,” and I tend to believe this is true. Publishers will usually try to have you pay based
on how many people are on their list because that larger number serves them, but I would
prefer to pay based on how many clicks their emails typically get. To find out that number, I’ll
usually ask to see a report of the last 5–10 emails they sent out and how many clicks each
email got. Then I reverse engineer the process by saying to myself, If I were to get that many
clicks, then based on my normal landing page conversion rates, I should make “x” amount of
money. This process helps me know approximately how much I’m willing to spend to pay for
that ad, and I try to negotiate toward that number.
After you negotiate the ad cost, you’ll create the email, send it to the publisher, and then
they’ll send out the email for you. If they want to send you their email list and have you send
the email out, then run away fast. This is a scam and not something you should ever do. They
should be emailing their list from their servers with your creative that you gave them. I like to
have the email come from the publisher endorsing the landing page that I want to send the
reader to.
The best part about email ads is you get results really fast. When someone sends the email,
you’ll get the majority of all your clicks within 12 hours, the rest of your clicks within 36–48
hours, and then the clicks usually stop. I like to use email campaigns to test landing pages
because I can run split tests really fast.
The worst part about email ads is you can waste a lot of money fast if you’re not ready. I may
spend $5,000 on an email drop, where the traffic will all come and go fast, but if I spend that
same $5,000 on Facebook, I may be able to run traffic more slowly for a few weeks. So be
aware of that as you are running email ads.
Lastly, solo publishers will often try to sell you “sponsorship ads,” which are smaller ads
embedded inside their emails. I’m not a huge fan of these, and I’ve had a really hard time
getting them to be profitable. For me, if I can’t buy a solo ad, meaning the entire email is my
message, then I usually won’t do it.
DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS #2 AND #3: FACEBOOK MESSENGER AND DESKTOP PUSH
As of today, I don’t know many people selling ads in their Messenger lists, but I do think that
this market will start to grow. Usually, the messages that are sent through Messenger need to
be a little more stealthy because Facebook doesn’t like you sending out straight promotions.
Because Messenger doesn’t allow you to send blatant promotions to your subscribers, the
open and click-through rates are second to none. I recommend finding people in your Dream
100 who are actively building up Messenger lists and asking them if you can buy ads to their


--- PAGINA 158 ---

lists.
The same is true with desktop push notifications. This is a newer type of list that is getting a
lot of traction right now. We’re starting to build up a Dream 100 list of people in our market
who are building up these lists so we can purchase broadcasts from them.
OTHER DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS
There are tons of different distribution channels out there that you will start identifying as you
keep your eyes open. Recently, we started going to all our Dream 100 and buying postcard and
direct mail campaigns to their buyer lists. Sometimes it’s harder to get them to block out the
time to send an email, but most of them aren’t sending anything to their customers in the
mail. We’ve been setting up deals with them where they send their customers’ shipping
addresses to a secure mailing house (so we never actually get access to their addresses) while
we send a pre-approved mailing piece to that mailing house. The mailing house will then print
our letter or postcard and then send it to the customer lists of our partners.
Some of my friends have built up big text message lists, so we’re buying text blasts from
them. Others run big Facebook groups, so we’re paying to post a sponsored post in their
groups. Others have big groups on LinkedIn, so we’re paying the group owners to send
messages to their followers for us. And still others have large forums, so we’re buying
promotions to their customers’ user base and banner ads on their sites.
Most of the blogs in our market sell ads on their sites. Some have big Google AdSense
blocks, and we’ll test ads initially using GDN to see if the ads convert well. If they do, I’ll go
directly to the blog or website owners and try to pay them to replace that AdSense block with
my banner ads. I’ve even paid people for their website exit pop-ups so I can tap into the traffic
that is leaving their websites.
There’s an unlimited number of ways to do this. The key is to keep your eyes open for
streams of traffic and distribution channels that people own; then figure out how to buy ads in
them. Each new distribution channel you plug into will give you a raise. Every day when I
come into the office, the first thing I ask myself before I get out of my car is, “How can I give
myself a raise today?” Immediately, my mind will start looking for distribution channels in my
market that I can tap into. Sometimes I’ll remember a website, a blog, or an email list that I’ve
been on forever that I forgot about. When your mind is looking for these opportunities,
somehow they start jumping out at you.
When you don’t have access to Facebook or Google ads (like we didn’t for so long), the
number-one way to get traffic is searching for these distribution channels and using them to
build up your own lists. It’s a guerilla technique that works no matter what is happening in the
networks, and you can immediately start plugging this technique into your daily routine.
INTEGRATION MARKETING
My first mentor, Mark Joyner, whom I introduced you to earlier in this book, wrote a book
called Integration Marketing about a decade ago. It shifted my mind-set from just finding
distribution channels and buying ads in them to figuring out ways that we could integrate into
the actual sales processes of our Dream 100.
For example, let’s say I find a partner who is getting 1,000 new leads into their funnels
every day. Instead of just buying an ad one time to that list, what if my email was sent to every
new lead on their email list on day three? That way, I set up the deal once, but I get the benefit
of that integration every day. Now, every day 1,000 new people get my message. I’m now
integrated into my partner’s sales process, and as they grow their company, mine grows as
well!


--- PAGINA 159 ---

Figure 17.1: When you integrate your funnel into other people’s funnels or email campaigns, you
get the benefit of having additional streams of traffic for as long as they are in business.
Integration marketing works beyond just email. We’ve set up deals where we integrate a
pop-up on people’s blogs so every reader the blog gets can potentially join my list. We’ve set
up other deals where we have people add an exit pop-up to their website, so that when people
leave their site, a big percentage are sent over to our funnels! There are so many fun and
creative things you can do. Your imagination is your only limitation.
As soon as I became aware of this concept, I started looking for these integration
opportunities everywhere. I looked for products that people would need immediately before
they started using ClickFunnels, things like domain hosting, graphic design, and business
licenses. Then I figured out a way to set up a partnership with each company. For instance,
after a person buys their domain, gets a logo design, or gets their business set up, they’re
introduced to us. We set up many of these deals years ago, and because we’re integrated into
our partners’ distribution channels, tons of customers are driven to us every day without us
having to do anything again.


--- PAGINA 160 ---

SECRET #18
YOUR AFFILIATE ARMY
I want to take you back in time to November 2003.
My wife had just closed her eyes, and I had finished a homework assignment on my laptop in
bed. Before I shut down the laptop for the night, though, I decided to do one last search to
hopefully give me some direction on my side hustle. My wife had been working to support us
both, and we wanted her to be able to retire from her job and for us to start a family. I had
spent the last year trying to figure out how to play the “business” game, but, no matter what,
everything I had tried had led me to a dead end.
I’m still not sure exactly what I typed into Google. All I know is that after a few clicks, I
ended up at the front page of an underground marketing forum that was filled with thousands
of people who were making money online. I created a free account and instantly got access to
a community of people who were doing exactly what I had dreamed of doing. I had no idea
that anything like this existed online!
I started scrolling through the posts and saw people discussing the newest Google algorithm
changes, what things they were testing, what worked, and what didn’t. I was eavesdropping
on the conversations of internet millionaires who were sharing everything so freely and had no
idea I was there!
For hours, I devoured every post and wrote down every resource. I realized that the answer
to every question I ever had was there, and these people were the ones who were discovering
what was working and were sharing it in real time. I had found my people . . . my tribe! As the
clock changed from 10 P.M. to 11 P.M. to 12 A.M. to 1 A.M., every hour seemed like a few seconds.
I was so excited, but my body and eyes were so tired.
I’ve got to read just one more post, I thought. Just one more. Afraid that perhaps I was in a
dream and if I woke up, I might lose access to this exclusive club, I kept scrolling and reading.
That’s when I looked over and realized it was 2:47 A.M. Wrestling practice started at 6:00 A.M.
Do I go to sleep now and get a few hours of sleep? I knew the answer was yes. I needed to
sleep, or I was going to really struggle to make it through tomorrow.
I went to close my laptop, but then I saw it. The question. The golden question! The one that
I had been asking in my head over and over again for the past few months.
What’s the best way to get traffic to a website?
I wanted to click on it, but I didn’t know if I had the energy to go down that rabbit hole, at
least not then. I looked at the question for at least 30 seconds and decided I had to know. I
clicked on the title, and it brought me immediately inside of an intense conversation with
everyone talking about why their way to drive traffic was the best.
Some said SEO, but then all the SEO guys started to fight over which method of SEO was
the most effective: cloaking, doorway pages, link spam, log spam, and about two dozen other
things I had never heard of. Then the PPC guys came out as well. Each had a different
strategy that one-upped the person who posted before them. Others talked about email
marketing, safelists, or buying solo ads.
My heart raced faster and faster, and every new idea seemed better than the last. And then
it happened. The owner of the forum—probably the wealthiest guy who was there—made a
comment. It wasn’t long—just eight words that stopped everyone in their tracks—the ultimate
mic drop. These eight words changed my life.
I rely on my own network of affiliates.
At first it didn’t really make sense to me. I read it again and again. Knowing that he was one
of the best marketers in the group, I knew there was something to it and that I needed to
figure it out.
Then it hit me! He had an affiliate program that had hundreds of affiliates who sold his
products for him. Because he gave them a commission after they made a sale, he had no risk;
he only paid them if they actually made a sale!
I looked at his response again: I rely on my own network of affiliates. I saw his brilliance.
Instead of relying on his own efforts to do SEO or PPC, he could have dozens of others ranking
pages for him and running ads selling his products. Instead of relying on his own email list,

