# CHUNK 2 (Paginas 21-40)


--- PAGINA 21 ---

thing they risked everything for never gets to see the light of day.
Waiting for people to come to you is not a strategy.
But understanding exactly who your dream customer is, discovering where they’re
congregating, and throwing out hooks that will grab their attention to pull them into your
funnels (where you can tell them a story and make them an offer) is the strategy. That’s the
big secret.
The good news for Dr. Wooler is that after that night, he started geeking out on funnels. He
built a client acquisition funnel and learned how to buy ads on Facebook and Google. His
funnel now generates new patients for him 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and to this day he
has a thriving practice.
I’m assuming that if you’re reading this book now, you have a product, service, or a skill that
you’ve focused countless hours mastering. This book will become your education on getting
people to actually see your art.
This section of the book will be focusing on answering two very important questions:
Question #1: Who is your dream customer?
Question #2: Where are they congregating?
When you have a perfect vision of who your dream customer is, it becomes easy to find
where they are congregating. On the contrary, if you don’t have perfect clarity on who that
person is, it’s really hard to find them. When you have completed this section, you’ll know
exactly who your dream customer is and where they are hiding so you can get their attention
long enough to tell them your story.


--- PAGINA 22 ---

SECRET #1
WHO IS YOUR DREAM CUSTOMER?
Figure 1.1: Each business needs to understand their dream customer avatars better than the
customers know themselves.
“I don’t know if Alexis will like this,” said an executive at Sally Beauty Supply.
Confused, my friend Perry Belcher asked, “What?” He set down his new scented hand
sanitizer that he had brought in to pitch at the meeting.
He picked up his new UV nail polish and handed it to the group. “Okay, well, how about this
product?” he asked.
They looked at it, opened it up, and smelled it. “Yeah, I’m pretty sure that Alexis won’t like
this either,” they replied.
More confused than ever, and now a little frustrated, Perry brought out his third and final
product to pitch to them.
In a similar fashion, they looked at the product, gave it a quick once-over, and then said,
“Sorry, Alexis definitely wouldn’t be interested in this one either.”
More frustrated, Perry looked at the two execs he was talking to and finally blurted, “Who is
Alexis?! Is she the decision maker? Why isn’t she in this meeting instead of you two? Is she
here? Can I just talk directly to her? I know that I can convince her that your company needs
to sell these products!”
There was a moment of silence, and then both of the execs burst out in laughter.
“Alexis isn’t a person. She’s our customer avatar!” one replied.
“What?” Perry asked. He had never heard of a customer avatar before. “I’m sorry, I don’t
understand. Alexis isn’t a real person?”
The execs just smiled at each other and asked Perry to follow them into another room.
When they entered the new room, he saw a wall full of pictures of “Alexis,” a fictitious
character who represented Sally Beauty Supply’s dream customer. The wall also featured a
full bio about who she was, how many kids she had, where she lived, how much money she
made, and the type of home she lived in.
The execs then went on to explain that everyone in the company was trained that when they
make any decision about what products to purchase, what colors to use in the stores or their
branding, what ads to run, what promotions to create, what their websites looked like, and
what music to play in their locations, everything was run through the lens of Alexis’s eyes.
If it was something that Alexis would love, then the answer was yes. If it wasn’t something
she would love, then the answer was always no.
They didn’t run a product-centric company; they ran a customer-centric company.
Their customer avatar is what drove everything from the products they created to the ads
that they ran.
When Perry first told me this story, I had my big “aha”!
Most entrepreneurs mistakenly think that their business is about them, but it’s not. On the
contrary, your business is about your customer.
If you want customers (traffic) to come into your funnels, then you have to be able to find
them online. And if you want to find them online, then you have to start to understand them at


--- PAGINA 23 ---

a much deeper level.
BECOMING OBSESSED WITH YOUR DREAM CUSTOMERS
The first step in this process is to become obsessed with your dream customer. Companies
that become obsessed with their products will eventually fail.
As we’ve grown ClickFunnels, I’ve seen this happen time and time again. Every company we
competed against—even though some of them had hundreds of millions of dollars in funding
behind them—eventually lost to us because they were busy focusing on their product while we
became obsessed with our customers.
What do I mean when I say obsessed? Being obsessed with your customer means
understanding them just as well, if not better, than they understand themselves.
For many, this is the most difficult part of the process, even though you may have actually
been your “dream customer” not too long ago. Often, just remembering how you felt when you
were trying to solve the very problem you’re now solving for people is usually hard.
I was recently talking to my friend Nicholas Bayerle about the fact that most businesses are
created from a problem that an entrepreneur had, and their product or service was the result
of them figuring out the solution to that problem. “Our mess becomes our message,” Nicholas
said.
When you’re frustrated about a problem you’re having, you look for a solution. If you’re not
able to find a solution that gives you the result you want, then you’ll likely go on a journey to
find or create your own solution. In that way, your problem becomes your business; in other
words, your mess becomes your message.
If that’s true, then you need to look back in time to find the point where you were struggling
with the same problem your dream customer has now. Then you need to remember what you
were feeling when you were in that pain.
In our community, we have so many amazing examples of leaders who have made their mess
their message, and one of my favorite power couples is Stacey and Paul Martino. Years ago,
they found themselves at a crossroads. Their relationship was broken. Paul had tried for
months to stay, but eventually, he felt so much pain that he decided to leave. As he broke the
news to Stacey late one night, she broke down and cried. Her relationship was over, and the
pain she felt was too much to bear.
I won’t tell their full story here, but the short version is that because of this experience,
Stacey knew that to save her relationship, she needed to change first. She put in the work to
transform herself, and in the process of her changing, Paul changed as well. After saving their
own marriage, they developed a unique process to heal marriages that doesn’t require
“couples work.” Instead, they believe that it takes just one person in a relationship to change
it for the good.
Their mess became their message and now they have dedicated their lives to helping others
find relief from the same pain that they felt years earlier. With their unique system and tools,
they’ve helped to save thousands of marriages. In a society where more than 50 percent of all
marriages end in divorce, the students who go through their program only have a 1 percent
divorce rate.
Stacey and Paul are successful at finding and helping their dream customers because just a
few years ago, they were their dream customers. Because they really, deeply understood the
pain, they could identify their dream customers’ goals and aspirations and could identify
where they were congregating to help move them toward those goals. They are a product of
their product.
In the early 20th century, Robert Collier published one of the great books on copywriting,
The Robert Collier Letter Book. In this book, he shares how to really understand your
customers. If you’re going to find them, persuade them to follow you, and hopefully change
their lives with the products and services you sell, you need to know and understand them
better than they understand themselves.
Collier believed that we as marketers should not be trying to figure out how to create the
next amazing ad campaign, but instead we need to learn how to “enter the conversation
already taking place in the customer’s mind.”3
If you want to really understand who your dream customers are and where they are
congregating online, you need to be able to enter the conversation that is already taking place
inside of their mind and see the world the way that they see it.
When you truly understand the core pains they are trying to move away from and the core
desires and passions they are trying to move toward, it becomes very easy to identify exactly
where they exist online. As soon as you know where they are online, then you can hook them


--- PAGINA 24 ---

and bring them into your funnels where you can serve them. We will go into greater detail on
how to do that throughout the rest of the book.
Now that we have the foundation covered, let’s dive into identifying your dream customer
with the 3 Core Markets, sometimes known as the 3 Core Desires.
THE 3 CORE MARKETS/DESIRES
Figure 1.2: People purchase products hoping to get a certain result from one of these 3 core
desires/markets.
In Expert Secrets, I introduced the concept of the 3 Core Markets, or the 3 Core Desires. The
three desires (in no particular order) are health, wealth, and relationships. When people
purchase any product from anyone, they’re hoping to get a certain result in one of these three
areas of their lives. So the first question you need to answer is this:
Which of these three desires is my future dream customer trying to receive when they buy
my product or service?
This is the first layer to getting inside the mind of your dream customer, and for most people
the answer is pretty simple. However, sometimes people get stuck on this question for one of
two reasons.
Reason #1 — My product fits into more than one of these desires: Many products can
be marketed toward getting a result in more than one of these desires, but your marketing
message can only focus on one of them. Anytime you try to get your potential customer to
believe in two things, your conversions will usually cut in half (most times by 90 percent or
more). To target two different desires, you need two different ads leading to two different
funnels. Only focus on one desire with each message you put into the market.
Reason #2 — My product doesn’t fit into any of these desires: This false belief was best
resolved at one of our recent events where someone told one of my head coaches, Steve J
Larsen, this exact same thing. Steve responded by telling the story of Gillette razors and
asking which desire a razor fulfilled.
At first everyone was quiet, and then a few people started guessing. “Health?” Another
mumbled, “Or maybe . . . hmmm . . .”
Steve then played one of Gillette’s ads. In it, you see how a story develops. First, a man is
shown shaving. After the shave, a beautiful woman gets closer to him. Then the two go out for
a night on the town. Finally, the ad shows the two together back home in their room.
After showing the ad, Steve asked the question again a little differently, “What desire was
this marketing message created for?”
Instantly everyone responded, “Relationships!”
Most products can fit into multiple categories, even if they may look as if they don’t fit into
any category at all, but no matter what, the key is that your marketing message can and must
be focused on only one of the 3 Core Desires. I want you to take a few minutes and decide
which of the 3 Core Markets or Desires your product or service currently fits into.


--- PAGINA 25 ---

AWAY FROM PAIN/TOWARD PLEASURE
Figure 1.3: All humans either move away from pain or toward pleasure.
Now that you’ve identified which core desire your product or service is focused on, the next
step to entering the conversation inside your customer’s mind is to understand which
direction they are moving. Every human being on this planet is always moving in one of two
directions when they make a decision: away from pain or toward pleasure.
Moving Away from Pain: The first direction that people can be moving in is away from pain.
Let me show you a few examples of moving away from pain for each desire.
Health (moving away from pain)
I’m overweight and don’t feel comfortable in my clothes.
I don’t have energy and feel tired all of the time.
I hate what I see when I look into the mirror.
Wealth (moving away from pain)
I hate my job and want to fire my boss.
I have no money saved, and I’m scared I could lose my job.
Everyone around me makes more money than I do.
Relationships (moving away from pain)
I’m in a bad relationship and don’t know how to get out.
I feel alone and want to feel what love feels like.
I feel awkward when I’m around people I don’t know.
Each of those statements above are conversations that people are having inside of their own
minds. While these are broad examples, when I actually wrote down the thoughts that my
particular dream customer was having, I did three things to try to understand the
conversation that they were having with themselves each day.
1. I wrote out hundreds of phrases that I used to say to myself when I was trying to solve
the problem for myself initially.
2. I looked online in forums, message boards, and groups to see what others are saying
when they are trying to get out of pain.
3. I really tried to put myself in their shoes and wrote out what I believed people were
thinking.
EXERCISE
For this exercise, I want you to write down at least a dozen things that your potential future
customers are saying or thinking as they’re trying to move away from pain. This exercise is
something you should be continually doing every day. I’m always looking for the questions and
statements that people in my market are saying as they try to move out of their pain.


--- PAGINA 26 ---

Figure 1.4: Exercise: Write down all the things your dream customers are saying or thinking as
they move away from pain.
Moving Toward Pleasure: The second direction that people can be moving in is toward
pleasure. They don’t have a desire for health, wealth, or relationships because they are
unhappy; they have a desire because they are happy and looking for more. Let me show you a
few examples of moving toward pleasure for each desire.
Health (moving toward pleasure)
I want to get six-pack abs.
I want to be able to run a marathon.
I want to eat healthier so I can get more energy.
Wealth (moving toward pleasure)
I want to buy my dream house or dream car.
I want to grow my company so I can have more impact.
I want to learn leadership so I can grow my team.
Relationships (moving toward pleasure)
I want more passion in my relationships.
I want to spend more time with my spouse and kids.
I want to meet more people through networking.
Do you see how different these phrases are even though they are addressing the same core
desire? I wanted to put them together in a chart so you could see them side by side. It’s


--- PAGINA 27 ---

powerful to see that while everyone may be trying to accomplish the same goal, the reasons
why they’re doing it are almost polar opposites.
Figure 1.5: While two people’s goals might be the same, their reasons for accomplishing that goal
might be completely different.
EXERCISE
Now I want you to spend a few minutes doing this second exercise. Write down at least a
dozen phrases that people in your market who are moving toward pleasure may have running
on a loop in their head.


--- PAGINA 28 ---

Figure 1.6: Exercise: Write down all the things your dream customers are saying or thinking as
they move toward pleasure.
The more phrases you can find, the more traffic streams you’ll be able to tap into, so make it
a continual process to identify and write down the conversations happening inside of your
customers’ minds. And as you’ll see in the next secret, understanding the phrases that are
going on inside of your customers’ minds in both directions (moving away from pain or toward
pleasure) will guide you to finding them.
THE SEARCHER AND THE SCROLLER
To really understand how to use the conversations that are going on inside of the minds of
your dream customers, we need to go back in time a few hundred years before the internet,
before TV, and before radio to where traffic began.
Until the early 1800s, people mainly obtained products based on what they needed. They
would be in some type of pain, and they would search for a solution to solve it. It started with
food. Our ancestors had a desire for health (food), so they would search for food, kill it, and
bring it home. In more modern times, we have stores. When you need food or something else
at your home, you go to the local store, search for what you need, and buy it.
In 1886, the Yellow Pages directory was created, and it was awesome for consumers
because you could find exactly what you needed, and business owners had the luxury of
people simply showing up, looking for what they had to sell. It seemed like the perfect
solution, except for one thing: as a business owner, if you wanted to make more money or
grow your company, you were not in control. You had to wait for people to have a need in
order for them to come and find you.
But then, in 1927, the television was invented, and just 15 short years later, on July 1, 1942,
during a Brooklyn Dodgers–Philadelphia Phillies game at Ebbets Field, the first-ever TV
commercial aired.4 At the time, there were over 4,000 televisions in New York, and that day,
while families gathered around to watch the big game on NBC, it was interrupted by the first-


--- PAGINA 29 ---

ever TV commercial. That ad, which was just nine seconds long and cost only $9, featured a
map of America with a Bulova watch clockface in the middle. At the end of the ad, a voice
announced, “America runs on Bulova time.” And with those nine seconds, the shift from search
advertising to interruption advertising had officially begun.
People watching TV that night were not searching for a new watch, but as they saw the
commercial and the picture of the watch, it placed a seed of desire in their hearts and minds.
They didn’t need this watch, but they wanted it.
This TV commercial gave business owners a window where they could grab their potential
customers’ attention long enough to plant that seed of desire and show the perceived value of
what they were selling. No longer would people only buy when they needed something; now
advertisers had the ability to create desire and sell people stuff that they wanted.
This interruption advertising started happening in other types of media such as radio,
newspapers, and direct mail. The process was simple: get a captive audience, entertain or
educate them, and then, when you have their full attention, interrupt them with your message.
You can then grab their attention and create desire for the product or service that you are
selling.
Nowadays, this type of interruption advertising happens every day around you, but I’m
guessing you don’t realize how profound of an impact those advertisements actually make on
your buying decisions. To show you how effective interruption advertising is versus traditional
search advertising behind the scenes, I will share a story from my friend Trevor Chapman.
Trevor used to run a big sales team of people who sold alarm systems door to door. At the
time, if you were to go to Amazon and search for “home security systems,” you would quickly
find hundreds of options, each one competing on price. If someone had a need for an alarm
and went to Amazon to buy it, usually they would buy the cheapest one that still had the
highest ratings.
Trevor then compared people searching online for home security systems to what his sales
team did every day. He explained, “We would go down the street and knock on people’s doors
and interrupt them from their day. Minutes earlier, they had no desire for a home security
system. Because we interrupted them, though, we had a small window where we could make a
presentation and show them the perceived value of our home alarm system. This presentation
would create a desire in them to buy the alarms from us. We would then make them a special
offer that they could only get from us, right there, right then. In less than an hour, we’d walk
away with a monthly monitoring contract that would be worth over $2,999 to us in the next
five years as opposed to the $199 version they would get by buying the alarm on Amazon.”
It’s interesting to note that when the internet started a few decades ago, it followed a very
similar pattern. It began with searches. People had some type of need, usually to get out of
some type of pain, and they would immediately go to the search engines looking for a solution
to their problems. Later we were all introduced to social media through platforms including
Myspace, Facebook, and Instagram; and just like the Bulova ad in 1941, in 2007 Facebook
announced the first-ever social interruption advertising with Facebook Ads. People would be
online talking to their friends, posting pictures, liking images and videos, and then suddenly,
your ad would show up in their Facebook feed. You’d have a small window of time to grab
their attention, create a desire for your product or service, and make a special offer.
Figure 1.7: People will either be searching for your product (left), or you will interrupt them
(right) to get their attention with your ads as they are scrolling.
Pros and Cons for Search: The pro for search-based traffic is that when they come to you,
they’re hot buyers who are ready to buy. This is similar to people who walk into your store or
find you in the Yellow Pages and give you a call.
The con with search-based traffic is that they’re not just searching; they’re also comparing


--- PAGINA 30 ---

options with your competitors. You’ve got to be the price leader, as well as the quality leader
and the niche leader. People who are searching are also researching all those things, so until
you become good at funnels and offers, you’ll likely be trying to beat your competitors by
lowering your prices. Unfortunately, trying to be the cheapest product is never a good
strategy.
Pros and Cons for Interruption: As a marketer, you can target people who are interested in
certain people, ideas, TV shows, or bands, and then you can interrupt them with your ads. You
open a small window of time where you can grab their attention and show them the perceived
value of what you’re selling. You no longer have to wait around for someone to come looking
for you. Now you can create desire in your dream customers.
The pro for social-based interruption traffic is that you can target warm traffic based on
people’s interests. Therefore, you can sell based on the perceived value of your product or
service.
The con for social-based interruption traffic is that because the customer isn’t actively
looking for you, you have to become good at your “Hook, Story, Offer,” where you can grab
their attention, tell them a story, and then make them an offer. We will be covering how to do
this in more detail in Secret #3.
Now that you’ve identified who your dream customer avatar is, what their core desires are,
and if they are moving away from pain or toward pleasure, the next question we want to ask is
“Where are they congregating?” As you will learn in the next chapter, there are congregations
where the scrollers are hanging out, and congregations you can target for the searchers.


--- PAGINA 31 ---

SECRET #2
WHERE ARE THEY HIDING? THE DREAM 100
One day in college, I knew I was supposed to be doing homework, but my ADHD mind couldn’t
take it anymore. I had to stop writing, even if it was just for a few minutes. I looked around to
make sure no one else was looking, then I opened a new tab on my browser.
I started typing www.TheMat.com and then, within seconds, I was taken to a new universe:
a universe occupied by hundreds of thousands of wrestlers just like me, all around the world.
This was our playground where we could talk about wrestling, post pictures and videos, and
debate about who was going to win every match happening at the next big tournament.
I read a few articles and watched a video showing a new way to finish a single-leg takedown.
Afterward, I went to the forums. Oh, how I loved the forums! Who is better? Dan Gable in his
prime or Cael Sanderson now? someone had just posted. Of course, I had an opinion, and it
took everything I had not to spend the next 90 minutes writing my thoughtful response about
how if we shrunk Cael down to Dan’s size and took him in a time machine back to the ’70s,
Cael would have destroyed Dan head to head, but I knew I couldn’t. My paper was due the
next day, and I was locked away in study hall until it was done. Angrily, I closed down the tab
and sat back in my chair to stretch before I made the trip back to reality.
As I was leaning back, I started looking at my other wrestler friends who were locked away
in study hall with me because of our bad grades. As I glanced toward our 133-pounder, I
noticed a smile on his face. What? How could he be smiling in study hall? As I shifted my gaze
from his face to his monitor, I saw it. He was also on TheMat.com, and he was writing his
comments on why he thought Dan would actually beat Cael!
Then, looking at the other wrestlers in the room, I decided I had to know what they were
doing. Faking that I had to go to the bathroom, I stood up and started to walk past their desks.
I looked at our 157-pounder’s screen. Yup, he was looking at TheMat.com too. The 178-
pounder? TheMat.com! But what about our heavyweight? He has to be actually doing his
homework, right? Nope, he was also on TheMat.com, and as I passed his computer, I quickly
read his forum reply that Bruce Baumgartner (two-time Olympic heavyweight champ and four-
time Olympic medalist) would beat both Dan and Cael at the same time.
WHAT!?! Was he crazy? There was no way that Cael would lose to Bruce . . . That’s when it
hit me. TheMat.com was our little corner of the internet. All the wrestlers in study hall were
congregated on that website talking about wrestling, but we weren’t the only ones. Wrestlers
in other colleges across the country, along with high school wrestlers and their parents, were
on the website too. All around the world, hundreds of thousands of people were all together in
this one spot to talk about the topic that we loved most: wrestling.
Honestly, that is the real power of the internet: it has allowed us to connect with like-minded
people in a way that wasn’t possible before. It’s allowed each of us, with our unique and
sometimes weird hobbies and interests, to congregate with our people to discuss the things
that mean the most to us.
It wasn’t always like that, though. When I was in high school, we didn’t have TheMat.com,
so the only people we had to talk to about wrestling were the other few dozen wrestlers in our
school. But we weren’t the only group. High school was full of different groups, like the
basketball players, weightlifters, jocks, band members, and kids who played Magic: The
Gathering. Before the internet, groups like this were limited in size to how many people they
could find that had the same interests and were located geographically near them.
Pre-internet, it was expensive for a marketer to sell products and services to each of these
small groups. After all, how do you target just those people in every city who were interested
in what you have to sell?
If you had a huge mass market product, like shampoo or pain killers, you could run ads on
TV and know that mostly everyone who saw your ads probably had hair or got headaches
sometimes, but it was way too expensive to run an ad for wrestling shoes or training DVDs and
pray that the dozen wrestlers in each city actually saw the ad.
But the internet changed everything. It took the dozen wrestlers from my high school, and
every other school around the world, and put them together in one spot. If wrestlers were my
dream customers and I had a product to sell to them, I didn’t have to run huge mass media


--- PAGINA 32 ---

campaigns. Instead, I could go directly to TheMat.com, or wherever they were congregating,
and just buy ads there, knowing that 100 percent of the people who actually saw my ads were
people interested in wrestling! Instead of wasting money showing my ads to millions of people
who would not want or need my product, I could make sure that only my dream customers
would ever see what I’m selling. This targeting has cut ad costs down to a tiny fraction of what
people used to have to spend to get access to their dream customers. This is what has made it
possible for smaller businesses like ours to compete against, and oftentimes even dominate,
the biggest brands.
This same principle is true no matter who your dream customer is. The internet has made it
so that when you find those existing congregations of your dream customers, it’s like catching
fish in a barrel. You simply have to find the barrel of fish with your dream customers and
throw in your hooks. If your hook is good, it will pull people from that barrel into your funnels!
To catch your dream customers, you simply need to throw out enough hooks in an area where
your dream customers are congregating.
With Secret #1, you identified your dream customer, and with Secret #2, you can locate
where they’re hiding or congregating. If I was selling a product to wrestlers, I shouldn’t be
asking, “How do I get traffic to my funnel?” Instead, I should be asking, “Where are my dream
customers (in this case wrestlers) congregating?”
EXERCISE
Here are some questions you should be asking yourself at this point:
What are the top websites that my dream customers already go to?
What forums or message boards do they participate in?
What are the Facebook groups they engage in?
Who are the influencers they follow on Facebook and Instagram?
What podcasts do they listen to?
What are the email newsletters they are subscribed to?
What blogs do they read?
What channels are they following on YouTube?
What keywords are they searching for in Google to find information?
These questions will help you to start identifying where your dream customers are hiding.
The answers to these questions should be simple, especially if you are your dream customer.
When I launched ClickFunnels, it was easy for me to find startup entrepreneurs (i.e., my
dream clients) because I was a startup entrepreneur! I started looking at where I was already
congregating (which podcasts I was listening to, which blogs I read, which email lists I was
on, etc.), and instantly I knew exactly where my future dream customers were hiding.
If you don’t truly understand your dream customers (everything we talked about in Secret
#1), then it will be hard to find them. But if you really understand them, then you should
already know where they’re congregating to get out of pain and where they’re congregating to
move toward pleasure. And when you know where they’re congregating, it’s pretty easy to put
your messages or your hooks in front of them and pull them into your funnels.


--- PAGINA 33 ---

One of the common misunderstandings with traffic is that you have to “create” traffic, but,
as you can now see, that just isn’t true. Traffic (your dream customer) is already there. Your
job is to identify where they are, tap into those existing streams of traffic, throw out some
hooks, and then get a percentage of your dream customers to start coming to you.
THE DREAM 100 (ONE TO ONE)
Now that you understand that traffic already exists and isn’t created, I wanted to share with
you a concept I learned from one of my friends, Chet Holmes, called the “Dream 100.”5 He
wrote about it in detail in his best-selling book, The Ultimate Sales Machine. The way that
Chet teaches and uses the Dream 100 is a little different than how I use it, but understanding
Chet’s model will open up your ability to get unlimited traffic into your funnels.
Early in Chet’s career, he worked for Charlie Munger, whom you may know was Warren
Buffett’s business partner in Berkshire Hathaway. Chet sold advertising for one of the
company’s legal magazines. At the time, they were really struggling; they were last in sales in
their market. Chet was working with a database of over 2,000 advertisers. He made sales calls
every day, but they were still dead last at number 15 out of 15 magazines in their industry.
Then one day Chet had an idea. He did some research and discovered that out of those
2,000 advertisers, 167 of them were spending 95 percent of their advertising budgets with his
competitors. So he defined those 167 spending all the money in the industry as his best
buyers. Then he stopped marketing to everybody else and focused his time and efforts on
those 167 advertisers. His strategy included sending out direct mail pieces with lumpy objects
in them every two weeks, where he followed up on each package with a phone call. Twice a
month he’d mail a package, and twice a month he’d call.
Because these were the biggest buyers, they were the hardest people to reach. After four
months of following this strategy, he got zero responses. (Pretty discouraging, right?) Chet
was known for what he called PHD (Pig-Headed Discipline), though, and he refused to give up.
Then, in his fourth month, something changed. He landed his first big account: Xerox. It was
the biggest advertising buy ever for the company. By the sixth month, he had landed 28 of the
167 advertisers. And with those 28 advertisers, Chet doubled the sales over the previous year
and went from number 15 in the industry to number 1. He kept doubling sales for the next
three years in a row. By the end of year three, he had successfully brought in all 167 of his
Dream 100 as advertisers in their magazine.
Chet said, “The goal of the Dream 100 is to take your ideal buyers from ‘I’ve never heard of
this company’ to ‘What is this company I keep hearing about?’ to ‘I think I’ve heard of that
company’ to ‘Yes, I’ve heard of that company’ to ‘Yes, I do business with that company.’” Chet
grew that company by using the Dream 100 to create one-to-one sales opportunities.
Chet also used this same strategy to penetrate Hollywood. He had written a screenplay
called Emily’s Song, and he had decided he wanted to try to sell the screenplay to Hollywood.
The only problem was he didn’t know anyone in the entertainment field. So he bought an issue
of Premiere magazine that listed “The 100 Most Powerful People in Hollywood,” which became
his Dream 100 list. He used the same Dream 100 process to contact these people, and within
months, he was able to get LeAnn Rimes to read the script. Together, they went to Warner
Bros., where the screenplay was purchased!
THE DREAM 100 (ONE TO MANY)
Chet Holmes’s Dream 100 for “One to One” selling strategy is powerful when your business
model needs a small number of big customers. But for most of us, we’re looking for lots of
customers, not just 100. When I was starting out, many of the things I sold weren’t very
expensive, so it didn’t make financial sense to send packages and make phone calls to try to
sell a $20 product. That’s why Chet’s Dream 100 concept didn’t make sense when I first heard
it; I couldn’t see how it applied to my online business. In fact, initially, I completely dismissed
the concept and figured it didn’t apply to companies like mine.
One day, though, as I was writing DotCom Secrets and thinking about how I was going to
sell the book when I was finished writing it, I identified who my dream customers were that
would want to read my book and where they were congregating. I made a list and wrote out
everywhere that I could think my dream customers might be gathering. On that list I
identified:
10+ top websites and forums they spent time on
15+ active Facebook groups they participated in


--- PAGINA 34 ---

50+ influencers they followed on Facebook and Instagram
30+ podcasts they listened to
40+ email newsletters they subscribed to
20+ blogs that they actively read
20+ YouTube channels they subscribed to
After making the list, I added up how many subscribers, readers, and followers each of those
channels had. I was so excited to find out that there were over 30 million of my dream
customers on that little list alone, all congregated inside of those 185-plus communities!
Next, I tried to figure out how to get my message in front of those 30 million-plus people. I
brainstormed ideas, and that’s when the bolt of lightning hit! The Dream 100!
No, I couldn’t do a Dream 100 campaign to all 30 million-plus people because it would cost
too much. After all, I was trying to sell my book for $7.95, so if I did get a yes from a customer,
it was only worth $7.95 to me. But what if, instead, I did a Dream 100 campaign to the owners
of those 185-plus communities asking them to promote my book to their audience? If I could
build a relationship with one of them and get just one yes, that could turn into hundreds or
thousands of new customers!
So that’s exactly what I did! I found the contact information for those 185 people, and I sent
them each a copy of my book in the mail with a letter asking if they’d be interested in helping
to promote my book on launch day. Within a week of sending out the packages, I started to get
messages back. One message was from a podcaster on my Dream 100 list whom I’d been
listening to for years but had never actually met: John Lee Dumas from EOFire.com. He told
me he loved my book, and he asked me to be on his podcast to talk about it. I quickly agreed,
and, within a few days, I was being interviewed by John Lee Dumas. He asked about my book,
told people why he loved it, and then he told them to go buy a copy. Within a week of that
episode airing, we had sold over 500 books from that one interview alone!
I didn’t stop there, though. I kept following up with my Dream 100, and not only did I get on
other blogs and podcasts, but people also promoted me in their email newsletters and more! I
ended up landing over 30 of the 185 people as promotional partners.
The second part of the Dream 100 strategy (covered in more detail in Secret #4) works even
for those who didn’t respond or weren’t willing to promote my book. Advertising platforms like
Facebook allow you to target your ads to people with certain interests. For example, Tony
Robbins was in my Dream 100, and while he didn’t directly promote my first book, he did
directly promote Expert Secrets after over 10 years of being on my Dream 100 list! However,
even though he didn’t directly promote DotCom Secrets, I still wanted to market to his (at the
time) 3.2 million-person audience, as they were my dream customers too. On Facebook, I was
able to buy ads that were only shown to his audience, and we were able to sell thousands of
copies of my book to his people!
Our launch campaign for my book may have seemed massive from the outside as we sold
over 100,000 copies in a very short period of time, but in reality, we just put a concentrated
effort to market to the dream customers of 185 people.
Recently, I was at a mastermind event in Puerto Rico, and I had a chance to spend time with
Rachel Hollis, the author of the #1 New York Times best-seller Girl, Wash Your Face. At the
time, she was in the middle of launching her new book, Girl, Stop Apologizing. As I was in the
middle of writing this book, I was curious about how she had sold over a million copies of her
books. I asked her for the secret to selling that many copies, and she told me:
We asked ourselves this question: “What are the tribes that my women are already in?
What network marketing companies are they in? What Facebook groups . . . what
Instagram channels . . . what hashtags are they following?” After we identified these
things, we tried to figure out who are the tribe owners of these women. Who do we need
to become friends with? Anyone who had over 200,000 followers, we would direct
message (DM) them, tell them who we were, and ask them if we could talk. We started
messaging everyone. Our focus was to find the tribes, and then figure out the best ways to
infiltrate them.
The Dream 100! She didn’t call it that, but that’s exactly what she had done to quickly
become one of the best-selling authors of all time! Now, I know what some of you are thinking,
Russell, this may work for you and Rachel when you’re selling books, but I sell something
different, so the Dream 100 can’t work for me. It always makes me laugh when people think
these concepts will work for every business except their own, when the reality is that this
concept works for every business. Period. Let me share some more examples.


--- PAGINA 35 ---

Recently, I was listening to the Foundr podcast. They were interviewing Tom Bilyeu, the
founder of Quest Nutrition, who had started his business with a few friends and quickly grew
it into a billion-dollar company. During that interview, he was asked how he grew Quest
Nutrition, and Tom replied:
We had a very different approach that got a lot of people excited. Not just about the
product, but they felt good about the way we treated them. We went old school,
researching several hundred health and fitness influencers, then sending them
handwritten letters and free samples. This was all about showing an understanding of
what others were trying to achieve, and that Quest was interested in helping them connect
with their audience.
When people are building a community, they have a real sense of service to that
community. We would send them free product and just say, “If you like it, tell people, and if
you hate it, tell people that too.” Not trying to steer people’s comments gave us a pretty
great recommendation. Some didn’t like it and said so, but the vast majority loved it and
were grateful we had showed an understanding of who they were and what they were
trying to do, so they spread the word.6
Tom didn’t realize it, but the Dream 100 struck again! It’s the strategy that almost all
successful companies (oftentimes without realizing it) are using as the backbone of their
traffic strategies. When most people hear the title of Traffic Secrets, they assume I’m just
going to show how to run Facebook or YouTube ads. While those tools are great, they’re just
small external tactics of a much larger strategy.
The core strategy to understand is that your dream customers have already been
congregated by your Dream 100. If you focus on identifying them and marketing to them, your
dream customers will start flowing into your funnels faster than by anything else you could do.
A DIFFERENT DREAM 100 ON EACH PLATFORM
A few years ago, I decided to rebrand my podcast from the Marketing in Your Car show to the
Marketing Secrets show. When we did this, I set it up as a new podcast and invited all my old
listeners to resubscribe and join me on the new show. I had a lot of my faithful listeners move
over to my new podcast, and then I brainstormed other ways to grow my show. I first started
by leveraging the traffic that I own. I sent emails to my lists asking them to subscribe, sent out
messages to my Messenger lists, and posted on Facebook, Instagram, and about everywhere
else that I had a voice. This did get a big influx of listeners as all my true fans came over and
plugged in.
I was so excited about the immediate growth that I figured this initial surge would be all we
needed as the catalyst that would grow the show. Unfortunately, it wasn’t. In fact, the show
quickly flatlined, and then it started to shrink. I was completely freaking out, wondering if I
made a mistake starting a new show.
After I sat in my office with a few of the people on my team brainstorming for hours about
how to get our podcast to grow and what things I could do to get people to share my message,
it hit me, the big “aha”! It was so simple in my head, but as I blurted it to my team, it sounded
stupid.
“People who listen to podcasts . . . Well, they listen to podcasts!” I said.
“Yeah . . . um . . . I’m not sure where you’re going with this, Russell,” my team responded.
I half laughed. “Think about it. We’re trying to get people who love Instagram to move to
Apple to listen to us. While our best fans did come, the majority didn’t. Why? Because people
who are on Instagram love to consume content on Instagram. The same is true for our blog:
our superfans will move from Facebook and other places to read our blog, but our best blog
readers are people who read other blogs. People who love to watch YouTube videos love to
watch videos on YouTube, and people who listen to podcasts listen to podcasts.
“We can spend a ton of time and money convincing people on these other platforms to move
to podcasts, or we can spend that same time and money focusing on the people who are
already listening to podcasts. If they find a new show they love, they’ll listen every day!”
That was the big “aha” that set into motion our strategy for building a special Dream 100
list just for our podcast through the other podcasts that our dream listeners were listening to.
It also caused us to build out Dream 100 lists for every platform we’ve talked about already.
You see, prior to this big “aha,” we only had one big collective Dream 100 list with people
from all the platforms. We hadn’t respected the fact that people like to consume media in their
own favorite ways, and while it’s possible to move people from one platform to another, there


--- PAGINA 36 ---

is much less resistance when you just migrate people to you who are already on the platform
that they love.
WHAT ABOUT “BRICK-AND-MORTAR”-TYPE BUSINESSES?
At this point, some of you may be thinking, But Russell, I’m not selling a book or a product
online. I’m a local brick-and-mortar business trying to generate local leads online, so this
won’t work for me. For all my brick-and-mortar business owners, don’t worry, this strategy still
works, even though you will need to look at it a little differently. When building your Dream
100 list, instead of identifying the national influencers or leaders in your niche, you need to
identify your local influencers.
For example, if I owned a local juice bar, I would ask myself: Who is my dream customer and
where are they already congregating? My dream customer would be someone who is trying to
get healthier. To find these dream customers, I would create a list of the local gyms, health
food stores, chiropractors, personal trainers, nutritionists, etc., and then start building my
Dream 100 from that list.
We’ll show more examples of how these concepts work for brick-and-mortar businesses
throughout this book, but I wanted to address it quickly here before some of you thought that
this concept wouldn’t work for you.
CREATING YOUR DREAM 100 LIST
Figure 2.2 If you would like to print the Dream 100 Worksheet for your own use, go to TrafficSecr
ets.com/resources to download your copy.
The next step is for you to build out your Dream 100 list. Everything we do from this point
forward from paid ads to free traffic to joint ventures will all build from this core foundation of
the Dream 100. But for some reason, even though I’ve been talking about this concept for
years and it seems easy enough for people to understand, very few people ever sit down to do
the work and actually build it out.
If you were to hire me today for a $100,000 consulting day, the first thing I would do with
you is spend the first three to four hours building out this list. That is how important it is, so
don’t skip it! Yes, it’s simple, but it’s the foundation to everything!
In my friend Dana Derricks’s book The Dream 100, I wrote the foreword, which includes:
As the CEO and cofounder of the fastest growing, non-VC-backed software company in
history, hitting nine figures in under three years, it would seem difficult to narrow down
the ONE thing that really propelled us to where we are more than anything else . . . But,
it’s not. It’s the Dream 100. The Dream 100 is the foundation for our entire company.
At ClickFunnels, we don’t just leverage the Dream 100 approach for traffic . . . we use it
for EVERYTHING. How do we pick the market we want to enter? We use the Dream 100 to
research different markets and niches, then we narrow in on the ones that suit us best.


--- PAGINA 37 ---

How do we decide on our blue-ocean strategy? We use the Dream 100 to find the red
oceans and carve out our place in the market. How do we create our offers and figure out
what’s going to sell? We use the Dream 100 to model offers that are working in our
marketplace, which takes out the headache and hassle of “blind guessing.”
Everything we’ve done has come off of mastering the Dream 100 and, specifically,
knowing how to complement as opposed to compete. That’s how you build your
foundation. From there, you just get traffic (again, tapping into the Dream 100) . . . and
the rest is history . . . The Dream 100 is where ALL traffic leads (whether it’s Facebook
Ads, integration marketing, you name it) to and from. It all circles back to the Dream 100.
If there’s one area to invest as much time and money into your business as you possibly
can, from the beginning, it’s the Dream 100.7
You see, the Dream 100 is the key foundation for traffic and the key foundation for your
entire business because it helps you to figure out how to position your offers and tell your
stories. I cover this extensively in DotCom Secrets and Expert Secrets, but I want to impress
upon you here how important this key step is.
THE TWO CORE TYPES OF CONGREGATIONS
As you’re building out your Dream 100 list, there are a few important notes I want you to
remember. In Secret #1, we talked about how there are two ways that your dream customers
will find you: either they’re going to search for you or they’re going to interact with things
that interest them where you will interrupt them. I make these same two distinctions when I’m
trying to identify where my dream customers are congregating.
Interest-Based Congregations: The first type of congregation is based on interests. In most
social networks, after someone joins, the first thing the network tries to do is figure out what
things you’re interested in. Facebook is believed to automatically track over 52,000 data
points on each user as they are using their platform, which is super annoying as a user but
super awesome for us as advertisers.8 On top of that, advertisers have the chance to select the
interests that people follow, such as:
Who are the people (influencers, celebrities, thought leaders, authors, etc.) you are
following?
What companies are you following?
What movies, books, and brands are you following?
On the Dream 100 worksheet, I put a column for each of the main social networks.
Depending on when you are reading this book, there may be new networks that have become
super popular and/or some of these networks may be dead, so you should adjust the columns
as needed. What matters most is that you are making a list of all the people, companies,
movements, and interests that your Dream 100 are already following.
Start with your favorite social network and try to write down between 20 to 100 Dream 100
names for that network. Then do the same thing for podcasts, blogs, email newsletters, and
any other important types of congregation. Although we call this the Dream 100, I like to try
to make my list as big as possible, and I re-create my list two to three times per year as I pull
off names that aren’t bringing us the right customers and add new names as we find them.
After you’ve filled in as many names in the Dream 100 interest-based columns as you can
find, then move on to the search-based congregations.
Search-Based Congregations: When someone goes to Google or any other search platform,
they type in a keyword phrase looking for something like:
how to lose weight
emergency plumber Boise Idaho
best water filters
As soon as they type a phrase, they enter an existing congregation of people searching for
the same thing. Before I created my first product (How to Make a Potato Gun), one of the first
things I searched for was how many people were currently searching for phrases around that


--- PAGINA 38 ---

topic.
potato gun
spud guns
potato launchers
potato gun plans
At that time, there were over 18,000 people per month searching for all these phrases. Of
course, that was a while ago, so the number has probably increased dramatically. In my case,
this congregation of people were looking for something that I had the solution for.
This type of congregation is called a search-based congregation, and searches can occur on
Google, Yahoo, or any other search platform. Some popular search platforms at the time of
this writing are Quora.com, where people can ask questions on any topic; Pinterest.com,
where people search for images; and YouTube.com, where people search for almost
everything! (Later on, I’ll show you how YouTube and a few other search platforms serve as
both search and interest-based congregations.)
EXERCISE
To create your Dream 100 list, write out the phrases that you believe people are actively
searching. There will be many ways that we will refine and use these congregations, from
buying ads to doing SEO to getting those people’s pages that are listed to push people into
your funnels for you, but, for now, just build a list from your best guesses. We’ll discuss some
amazing software tools later to help you identify phrases you might never have thought of on
your own, and we’ll also explore how to find out how many people are searching for each
phrase. For this exercise, though, I want you to write out the phrases offhand that you think
either you or your dream customers would search for each day.
WHERE DO I START?
I’ve found that most people can grasp the concept of the Dream 100 pretty quickly, but when
they try to actually find 100 people, they get stuck. Oftentimes they are able to build a dream
dozen, but they struggle to get more than that.
At the end of the day, traffic is a numbers game. I want to find 100 (or more) people because
even with 100 people, we may only get 5 to 10 of them who are willing to let us get in front of
their audience for free. After that, we may only get 10 or so others for whom we’re able to
successfully target their audiences on the ad networks, so it’s essential that you cast a wide
net.
The easiest way to build a larger list is to go back to Secret #3 in Expert Secrets, where we
explore the 3 Core Markets or Desires. I’ll quickly re-explain it here so you can see how it ties
into the Dream 100.
It starts with the 3 Core Markets or Desires: health, wealth, and relationships.
Figure 2.3: Inside of the 3 Core Markets/Desires are submarkets and niches.
Each of the three markets have an unlimited number of submarkets. For example:


--- PAGINA 39 ---

Wealth → finance, investing, real estate, sales, marketing
Health → nutrition, strength training, weight loss
Relationships → marriage advice, dating advice, love
Inside each of the submarkets are the niches. So, for example, if my market is wealth, my
submarket would be marketing, and the niche that I would create is “sales funnels.”
Wealth → marketing → sales funnels
Other niches inside of the marketing submarket could be marketing through e-commerce,
Amazon, dropshipping, SEO, PPC (pay per click), Facebook Ads, or online courses. Honestly,
other niches in my submarket would include any way that someone would use the internet to
market or create a new business.
Figure 2.4: To find your best Dream 100, look outside of your niche and into your submarket for
the warmest traffic.
With that in mind, when I build my Dream 100, I’m not just looking for other people who are
selling “sales funnels” stuff. I do add those people, companies, and keywords to my list, but
what I’m really looking for is all the other people, companies, and keywords that are within my
submarket. They are my warmest traffic and where I focus first.
My goal is to provide my Dream 100’s followers with my new opportunity. I can usually build
my Dream 100 from this list pretty easily. But if you’re struggling to identify all the niches
within your submarket, just ask yourself this question: What other vehicles are people
trying to use to (insert result they desire) with (insert your submarket here)? To
illustrate this even further, let me give you some real-world examples.
In the WEALTH core market with a real estate submarket, I’d ask: “What other
vehicles are people trying to use to make money inside the real estate submarket?” The
answers to these questions would include: house flipping, short sales, and wholesaling.
In the HEALTH core market with a weight-loss submarket, I’d ask: “What other
vehicles are people trying to use to get six-pack abs inside the weight loss submarket?”
The answers to these questions would include: Keto diet, vegan diet, meatatarian diet,
and bodybuilding.
In the RELATIONSHIPS core market with a parenting submarket, I’d ask: “What
other vehicles are people trying to use to have a better relationship with their kids inside
the
parenting
submarket?”
The
answers
to
these
questions
would
include:
homeschooling, baby sign language, after-school sporting programs, and drama.
Each of these answers is a niche within a submarket with dozens of influencers, companies,
and keywords that you can target! Your submarket is where you should focus all of your
Dream 100 efforts initially because this is your warmest traffic.
After you’ve finished filling in your Dream 100 worksheet, then you’ll be ready to discover
the Hook, Story, Offer framework that you’ll be using over and over again to pull people from
your Dream 100 into your funnels.


--- PAGINA 40 ---

SECRET #3
HOOK, STORY, OFFER, AND THE ATTRACTIVE CHARACTER
Figure 3.1: Every piece of good marketing has a hook, a story, and an offer.
It was 9:27 P.M., and the last of Jessica’s kids had just fallen asleep. It had been a long day that
started way before the sun came up, and it was finally ending. While Jessica was exhausted, it
was her time now, as she had a few precious moments to herself without kids pulling her in a
million directions. Soon she would have to start her nighttime routine of cleaning up the
house, getting herself ready for bed, taking off her makeup, and finally falling asleep for a few
hours, before she had to wake up and start it all over again.
As she fell onto the couch, she reached into her pocket and slowly pulled out her phone.
What’s been happening in everyone else’s life today? she wondered. She opened Facebook and
swiped through the lives of her friends and family, hoping to find some comfort knowing she
wasn’t the only one who had a busy day.
Soon she started to get bored. But when she was about to close the app, she saw an image
fly past her screen. She almost missed it, but she slowly moved her finger back up her phone,
bringing the picture into the middle of the screen.
Yep, she thought she saw that right. It was a picture of a woman about her age in workout
clothes, with gray shorts on. The thing that caught her eye wasn’t the shorts, though—it was
the dark gray spot in the middle of the shorts. A little confused, she looked above the image
and read the words:
Let me tell you about that time I peed my pants during a workout . . . I was filming for
Dollar Workout Club and I have never been so embarrassed before.
Jessica was right! It was a picture of a grown woman who had peed per pants! She laughed
for a second, but then that laughter turned into uneasiness as she realized that she knew
exactly how this woman had felt. She had experienced the same thing earlier that year when
her kids had wanted her to jump on the trampoline with them. She wanted to be a good mom,
but after a few jumps she had to get off because she had peed her pants. She had quickly
come up with a reason why she couldn’t jump anymore, and after apologizing to her kids, she
had run into the house to get changed. She knew the story she had told her kids wasn’t true,
which added to her mom guilt even more. This also made her think about other activities that
she knew she would love to do but were off limits for the same reasons.
After a few seconds of looking at the image, Jessica decided that she wanted to see why in
the world this woman would post a picture of herself on Facebook telling others that she had
peed her pants. She clicked on the image and was immediately taken to a page that had a
video from the same woman in the picture.
Jessica clicked on the video and started listening to the story. The woman’s name was
Natalie Hodson, and she was a fitness blogger and mom of two amazing kids who were both
10-pound babies. Natalie told her embarrassing story of when she accidentally peed her pants
during a workout she was filming for her blog! She then talked about a doctor that she had
met who specialized in helping women with this problem. She shared how this doctor was able
to help her, and after she had success, she wanted to share it with other women.

