# CHUNK 6 (Paginas 101-120)


--- PAGINA 101 ---

one day, I stopped logging into Snapchat and eventually deleted the app altogether.
So what exactly are Instagram Stories, and how do they fit into your Instagram strategy? At
the top of the Instagram app, above your feed, you’ll find a section showing the “Stories” for
each of the people that you follow (your Dream 100).
Figure 10.5: Instagram Stories are short, 15-second-long videos that only stay on the platform for
24 hours and allow your fans and followers to see behind the scenes of your life.
If you click on one of their pictures, you’ll see all the short micro videos that they’ve posted
in the past 24 hours. Each video is just 15 seconds long, and you can post as many each day as
you’d like. Because they disappear after 24 hours, you don’t have to be as methodical about
each post, caption, and CTA as you are with your profile posts. These Stories are more
freestyle.
Personally, I look at my Instagram Stories as my personal reality show where my fans and
followers can see behind the scenes of what I’m doing each day. I’m literally documenting my
journey through the day in short, 15-second mini videos. When I wake up in the morning, I
may make a quick post as I’m walking into the gym, quickly mentioning why I’m excited or
what I’m dreading for the workout. I may make another post during my workout if I’m doing
something new or funny that I think would be fun to share with my audience. After I leave the
gym, I may post a quick video with one of my kids who just got out of bed and had funny bed
head, or I may have them share their funny or scary dream. Then I get ready for my day, and I
may make a post when I get in my car telling them quickly about what I’m excited about for
that day or what I learned during my morning study.
Do you see how this works? I’m taking them on my journey during my day and sharing the
highlights, giving them a glimpse of what I’m actually doing behind the scenes. As I get to the
office, I may show them something I’m working on as I’m doing it. For example, I’ve posted
Instagram Stories almost daily for the past few months showing my followers the process of
me writing this book.
Each day, I know there are tens of thousands of people who watch these quick videos of me
talking about this book and showing them new concepts or sketches I’m developing as I’m
doing it in real time. Can you imagine how many of them are anxiously waiting for the second
this book is done so they can buy their copy? By letting them participate in the process,
they’re more invested in what I’ve actually been doing. They’re more likely to buy what I am
creating when it’s ready. Instagram Stories are the most powerful way I’ve ever seen to have
your audience build a relationship with you as the Attractive Character.
Another great way to use Instagram Stories is to promote things you’re working on in a cool
way. I can show people my product or behind the scenes of how I fulfill my service, and then I
can give people a CTA to go and buy one. Each day, I usually try to make at least one pitch for
something I’m excited for. Instagram stories are my home where I’m able to push people into
my funnels and actually sell to them.
When you first get your Instagram account, it isn’t as easy to promote products; usually you
have to tell your followers to click on the link in your bio to get taken to your funnel. After
your account grows to 10,000 followers, though, you can unlock a really cool feature called
“swipe up.” If you’ve been following others on Instagram, you’ve undoubtedly seen people do
this before. They’ll make a pitch for something and tell you to swipe up to get access to it.
When they swipe up on the screen, they will be redirected to any link you want.


--- PAGINA 102 ---

Every day, I try to make 10–30 posts on Instagram Stories throughout the day documenting
my journey. I’ll typically make one that directs people to my profile to comment on whatever
picture I posted that day. I’ll also make one with a swipe-up CTA such as getting them to visit a
funnel, listen to a new podcast episode, watch a video on YouTube, or engage with me in a way
outside of the Instagram platform.
Story Highlights: These show up under your bio and above your grid. The way you use
Highlights ties back to the JK5 Method, where you pick the five categories that your brand will
be known for and create a “Highlight” for each one. As you make cool Stories that tie back to
one of these five categories, you can save them as Highlights, and they will automatically save
in that folder. This is a really cool way for people to see the Highlights over the past months or
years tied to your core categories.
Figure 10.6: Your Story Highlights allow you to keep your Stories “alive” longer than 24 hours
and are usually organized into categories that are important to you.
“Highlights” mini webinar hack: We have a little trick that we use to leverage Highlights to
sell a lot of products. About once per month, I pick one of my products that I want to promote.
I block out a full day in my Stories devoted to promoting that product with a mini webinar.
Basically, throughout the day, I’ll post 15–50 Stories going through a scripted presentation to
sell one of my products. Of course, I’ll usually make a ton of sales on that day. But because I
save it as a Highlight, it will continue to sell for me every day. Let me walk you through the
script for this mini webinar.
Figure 10.7: My mini perfect webinar script still follows my Hook, Story, Offer framework.


--- PAGINA 103 ---

In the first three Stories, I ask three yes or no questions that I know will hook my viewers.
For those who have read Expert Secrets, these questions will seem familiar as they sync with
the perfect webinar script. Question one is about the vehicle that I’m trying to put them into,
question two relates to their internal struggle, and question three deals with their external
fears. I ask each question, and then I let my followers answer yes or no.
My next few Stories will relate back to the questions I just asked. I like to use the
framework: Feel, Felt, Found. I might say something like:
I understand how you feel . . .
I felt the same way . . .
This is what I found . . .
Then I make a few Stories introducing a special offer I created that will solve the problems
people said yes to in the first three Stories.
Over the next 5–20 Stories, I’ll show the proof. I’ll say something like, “Don’t take my word
for it. Check out what others are saying.” Then I’ll post as many proof images, slides, and
videos that I have related to the offer.
After all my proof, I’ll make a few Stories recapping the offer they’re getting that day.
Finally, I end with a few Stories talking about any urgency and scarcity that I have related to
this offer.
This is one of my favorite ways to get consistent sales from Instagram. As people land on
your profile and start following you, one of the first things they look at are your Highlights, so
having a few in there that push your front-end funnels is a powerful way to make the
conversion into traffic that you own.
Instagram Live Strategy
The last way to publish on Instagram is Instagram Live. Because Instagram Live and Facebook
Live are so similar in their functionality and use, I won’t be spending much time on Instagram
Live. In fact, I purchased a second phone with the sole purpose of being able to go live on
Instagram at the same time I went Live on Facebook. That way, I can stream the same
message at the exact same time to both platforms.
One difference between Facebook Live and Instagram Live is that all Lives on Instagram are
stored on the platform for only 24 hours, and then they’re gone. On Facebook, however, your
Lives are stored on the platform forever, so you can continue to boost and promote your Lives.
I’m eagerly waiting for the day that Facebook and Instagram will just let you stream one
message to both platforms at the same time. Until then, if you don’t have a second phone, you
may just have to borrow a friend’s phone anytime you go live to get the extra eyeballs to your
message on Instagram, or you can also do your Facebook live from a laptop, and then your
Instagram Live from your phone. If you’re not able to live stream on both platforms, I suggest
you focus all your Live efforts on Facebook as your message can get more views over the long
run. We’ll talk more about the strategy of Lives in the next chapter with Facebook, but just
know that this is the other area of the app that I treat like my home, i.e., I can use this feature
to sell things to my existing followers.
Your Publishing Plan
Each section inside Instagram has different strategies on how you should be publishing. It’s a
lot, I know. I get it. When I first started looking at this platform, I thought that publishing on it
would be another part-time job. So for me to get this to work, I had to build out a publishing
plan that I could do in less than an hour each day and that was simple and effective enough
for me to stick to it. Using this publishing plan will help to make sure that you’re using every
second on Instagram to its fullest. You can follow my publishing plan to a T, or you can tweak
it to fit your own process.


--- PAGINA 104 ---

Figure 10.8: Use this publishing plan to see at a glance where you should focus your efforts on
Instagram.
STEP #4: WORK YOUR WAY IN
As you’re following your publishing plan and posting your content hooks using the right
hashtags, you will start showing up in the feeds of your dream customers. Having great
content for a consistent period of time is the baseline strategy for growth.
The next level of growth starts when you tap into your Dream 100 and their followers using
the power of Instagram TV. I told you earlier that we use IGTV to publish produced videos
answering questions that our audience has been asking us. The only problem is that the only
people who see these videos are the ones who follow us or those who happen to see our hooks
in their feed. As we thought about this problem, we wanted a way to stimulate growth of our
channel a lot faster, and that’s when it hit us! We should do Question-and-Answer
Collaborations (or collabs) with our Dream 100.
Let me explain how it works. A while ago, I got a question from one of my followers who was
trying to figure out why they were struggling with growing their company. I could have easily
made a video response and posted it, but then I had an idea. There were other people who
were actually more qualified than me to respond to parts of this question. I messaged Steve J
Larsen and told him that someone had asked me a really good question and that I was going to
answer it on video, but I’d love if he’d also answer it too. He agreed, made the video response,
and sent it to me. I also made a video response, and then I took our two responses and created
an IGTV video, posted it on my profile, and tagged Steve in the video. A huge number of my
followers watched the video, heard Steve’s response, and went and followed him. I then gave
him the same video and asked him to post it to his IGTV. He posted it, tagged me, and I got a
huge stream of new followers from his account as well. This collab added over a thousand new
followers to my account almost overnight.
We now try to do these collabs with my Dream 100 as often as possible. Often we’ll do
question swapping, where I’ll ask them a question and then they’ll ask me a question back. We
post it on our feeds and both our channels grow.


--- PAGINA 105 ---

You can do similar things when you meet your Dream 100 in real life, at conferences and
events. Take a picture with them, post it to your profile tagging them, and have them post it to
their profile and tag you. The possibilities are endless. Creative ideas like this are the key to
working your way into the followers of your Dream 100.
STEP #5: BUY YOUR WAY IN
To quickly grow your Instagram following, you need to show up on your Dream 100’s channel.
Our favorite way to buy our way in is by getting a “shout-out.” A shout-out is exactly what it
sounds like it is. Basically, one of your Dream 100 posts on their profile or in their Stories
about you. In their shout-out, they’ll usually mention your name, tell people to follow you, and
tag you. The tag makes a clickable link on Instagram where people can click on your tag and
be taken immediately to your profile, which is why it’s so important to optimize your profile
page.
For example, we found someone on our Dream 100 list (@prbossbabe), sent her a copy of
my 30 Days book when it first came out, and paid her to do a shout-out. She posted a picture
of herself with the book, told the story of the book, and then “shouted me out” by tagging me.
This tag directed people back to my profile to find out more. She made this post on her profile,
and she also published a few Stories with swipe-ups that took people directly to the book
funnel. This post was shown to her 82.8K followers, received 4,978 likes, and drove hundreds
of people to start following me.
Figure 10.9: You can pay influencers to do a “shout-out” and mention you on their profile.
You can approach people in your Dream 100 to do paid shout-outs, but there are also a lot of
agencies that specialize in getting shout outs for you. You can hire them, and they’ll do all the
work to find the people, get you the shout out, and get people to your profile page.
STEP #6: FILL YOUR FUNNEL
The last step in this framework is to then use all this exposure and engagement to convert all
of this traffic into traffic that you own. The first phase is creating your publishing plan and
putting out your content hooks to start to grow your following and build a relationship with
them. We use your Instagram profile and TV to find people and turn them into subscribers. We
can work our way in with collabs and buy shout-outs to speed up our growth.
As your following is growing, you can then start using your Instagram stories and get people
to swipe up and push your followers into your funnels. You can also use our “Highlights mini
webinar hack” to create mini webinars on your Highlights that will presell your people on the


--- PAGINA 106 ---

products or services you are selling in your funnels!
The last step is to start running prospecting ads (as shown in Secret #9) to find more of
your dream customers and move them into your retargeting buckets so you can get them into
your funnels. Everything you are doing now is all for the purpose of moving those people into
your value ladder and ascending them up so you can serve them at a much higher level.


--- PAGINA 107 ---

SECRET #11


--- PAGINA 108 ---

FACEBOOK TRAFFIC SECRETS
Around the same time that Google was trying to figure out how to create the best search
engine ever, other entrepreneurs were trying to solve a potentially bigger opportunity.
Everyone was starting to plug into this world wide web, so there had to be a way to socially
connect all these people together in a user-friendly interface. There was a race to create the
social network that would stick, and with hundreds of millions of dollars being thrown at the
opportunity, the reward for the winner of this social arms race was huge.
STEP #1: UNDERSTAND THE HISTORY AND THE GOAL
The first attempt to create a website-based social network started back in 1997 with a startup
called SixDegrees.com, which was based on the concept of six degrees of separation.26 People
were able to create an account, add their friends, and message people within their first three
degrees of separation. They could also see how anyone on the platform connected back to
them. It was one of the first attempts at social media that looked similar to what we now have
today.
The next wave of tools that were created to connect us socially were online messengers. It
started with ICQ in 1996, followed by AOL Messenger, Yahoo Messenger, MSN Messenger,
and finally Skype in 2003.27
In 2002, we saw the launch of Friendster and the concept of “social circles,” which
mimicked how people were really connected in the real world. This algorithm eventually beat
out SixDegrees.com, which went out of business just four years after it started. One year later,
other companies showed up based on this same “social circles” concept, such as LinkedIn,
Hi5, and Myspace. Myspace quickly became the most popular social networking site around.
For many people like me, who watched as Myspace crushed Friendster and the other fledgling
social sites, I had assumed that they would be around forever.
Over the next few years, even more social sites emerged. Flickr became the first large photo
sharing social site in the world, later dethroned by Pinterest. YouTube became a video sharing
service that was later acquired by Google. Twitter launched with the ability to share micro
content, while Tumblr became a micro blogging site.
In the midst of so many new social startups popping up every day, there was one that
silently launched in 2004 that would soon grow to overshadow all others. Even with giants like
Google trying to dethrone them with the short-lived launch of their social network, Google
Plus, no one has been able to beat this social media king. Of course, the social network I’m
talking about is Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook.
The story of Facebook’s rise has been documented in movies and books and talked about so
much in the media that I won’t spend much more time here on its history. Mark’s launch
strategy started by allowing only people with a Harvard email address to get an account. Then
he slowly extended access to other colleges, and eventually he extended access to everyone.
At the time of this writing, Facebook has 2.7 billion users, and 2.1 billion people use one of
Facebook’s core services, including WhatsApp, Instagram, and Messenger, every day!28 Yes,
over one-quarter of the world’s population is plugging into the Facebook network daily. It’s the
biggest social party of all time, and unless some type of government regulation breaks up their
monopoly, it will continue to grow.
Facebook has had a lot of scandals around how they handle their users’ privacy and data,
which can be super annoying as a user of Facebook, but it can be a huge blessing as an
advertiser on their platform. Facebook tracks everything you do: What do you like? Which
things do you comment on? Which types of posts do you engage with? All in all, they have up
to 52,000 data points on every individual that they accumulated as you were scrolling,
clicking, and commenting.29 Their goal is to figure out what you like and show you more of
that in your feed. The better your experience is on Facebook, the more likely you’ll spend
more time there; the more time you spend there, the more ads they can sell to marketers like
us.
Because Facebook is tracking so many aspects of your behavior, it gives us as advertisers
the ability to target people based on what they’ll probably like (their interests). As mentioned
in Secret #1, Facebook was the platform that originally gave us the ability to start using
“interruption” marketing, where we could target those who were interested in what we were
selling. We could interrupt them with a great hook, tell them a story, and then make them an


--- PAGINA 109 ---

irresistible offer.
Over time, the algorithm that judges which posts or videos get the most exposure on
Facebook’s platform continues to change. Five years ago, it was all about making a video that
was sharable. If you knew how to get shares, your videos could get millions and millions of
views overnight. As soon as everyone collectively learned the algorithm, then agencies started
to pop up everywhere, guaranteeing to make you a video that would go viral, because they
knew the algorithm and it worked.
Then Facebook went public, and they needed to raise more money, so Zuckerberg “snapped
his fingers” and changed the algorithm. The new algorithm no longer rewarded people for
having amazing, shareable content. That didn’t make them money, which was necessary for
stock prices to go up. He needed to change the algorithm so that Facebook could show higher
returns for the investors. Overnight, the majority of “free viral videos” died, replaced with a
new algorithm that required you to buy ads to boost and promote your videos. With these
changes, it required you to buy views to your video. If those people who saw your paid video
liked it, and a certain percentage of them shared it, then Facebook would reward you with
free viewers. When this would happen, for every paid eyeball you got on your video, you would
get two to three views for free. We used to call these videos “forced viral” videos, and they
became the new standard for each video we created.
Around this time, there was a land grab for each platform to be number one with live video.
Twitter bought Periscope, and it started to become the number-one place to stream live
videos. I remember those days, because I was on Periscope streaming live almost daily, that is,
until Facebook launched Facebook Live. To this day, I still like Periscope’s app better;
personally, I think that their streaming service, and pretty much everything else about it, is
way better than Facebook Live, but Facebook wanted to become the platform for live video
streaming, so they changed their algorithm. After the change, when you would go live on
Facebook, you could get hundreds or thousands of people to show up for free in just seconds.
They rewarded us for going live to force us all to switch to them; then after they won and beat
out all the competitors, they took away much of the organic reach and made us pay to get
more viewers to our videos.
Figure 11.1: When a new platform is released, they reward people for using it by giving everyone
free exposure. Over time, your free exposure lessens and you have to buy ads in order to get as
much exposure as you did for free before.
Facebook is a growing platform, and although I’m taking a snapshot of how it works today, it
will continue to evolve. The good news is that even though Facebook’s features, tactics, and
user interface change often, your overarching strategy does not. Whenever I’m diving into a
new platform, I always begin by asking myself these three questions:
What is the goal of the platform?
What is the strategy that I can use to help the platform with its goal?
What are the tactics that the platform is rewarding people for right now?
For example, the goal of Facebook is to have its users create content that will keep people
on their platform for as long as possible so they can show them ads. Our strategy is to figure
out what content Facebook is rewarding people for right now and how Facebook wants that
content to be promoted (both free and paid), and then for us to try to create the type of
content they want. The tactics are what that content looks like. This changes daily, but we can


--- PAGINA 110 ---

get a glimpse of what is working right now by watching our Dream 100, seeing the things
showing up consistently in our news feed that are getting the best engagement, and then
modeling these things.
STEP #2: FIND YOUR DREAM 100 ON THIS PLATFORM
Surprise, surprise. The first step when you start using Facebook is to identify your Dream 100
that have already mastered this platform and congregated your dream customers. If you
haven’t yet, be sure to clean up your Facebook feed by unfollowing everything that isn’t tied to
your Dream 100 and your dream customers. This will keep the noise down as you step into
this next phase.
Your Dream 100 are the people, experts, influencers, and brands in your market that have
already congregated your dream customers. It is also the owners of the groups in your
market. Each of these people and groups have their own social party happening, and your goal
is to first identify the party’s attendees (e.g., people, brands, interests, and groups) and then
to leverage Facebook to get these people into your funnels.
There will likely be a few big names in your market that you’re already familiar with, which
is where I would start. Find their Fan Pages and “like” and “follow” those pages. Then find
their personal pages and try to friend request them and follow their personal profiles too.
Typically, after you do that, Facebook will find other people who have similar followings that
you could follow. Go down that rabbit hole and start following every influencer you can find in
your market that has a following. The same is true with groups. You can search for groups in
your market and join them, and as you do, more groups will be “suggested” to you by
Facebook. Join the ones that your dream customers are already congregating in.
Finding your Dream 100 is not a one-time activity but instead an “every time” activity where
every time you’re on Facebook, you should look for these new congregations or people and
plug into them as they start showing up in your feed. As you do this, your Facebook feed will
become the best market research tool in the world. You’ll see every important conversation
that your dream customers are engaging in. You’ll see every ad being run to your customers.
You’ll see the messages they’re exposed to, the people they connect with, the pains they have,
the questions they want answers to, and the opportunities you can create to better serve
them. This is what your Facebook feed is for: mastering your market.
My goal when following all influencers in my market is to plug into an ecosystem of at least
1 million people. For example, if I’m able to find 20 people to follow, and each of them has a
following of 30,000 people, then I’m plugged into about 600,000 people. That means I need to
keep finding influencers or brands or groups until that whole universe of people is at least 1
million people. For some of you, especially local-based companies, it may be hard to find 1
million people, so you can set a smaller goal; for others who have larger target markets, 1
million may seem too small. Set your goals to match your market size and then follow the
influencers and brands you need to get to your magic number.
STEP #3: IDENTIFY THE PUBLISHING STRATEGY AND CREATE YOUR PUBLISHING PLAN
It’s important to remember that Facebook is the biggest social party in the world. It’s
happening 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and the majority of your dream customers are
already there. You don’t have to create traffic; you have to find the existing streams of traffic
and figure out how to funnel those people into your world. While there are a lot of things that
you can do inside of Facebook (and they’ll continue to add more things), there are four areas
of the platform that you must master.
Your personal profile (your home)—As you are “working your way in” (e.g., going out
and commenting on people’s posts, joining groups and posting content and more), the
friends, fans, and followers of your Dream 100—as well as the members of those groups—
will see your profile picture, click on your face and be taken from the social party to your
personal profile. This is your home, and this is where you’ll be able to direct people into
your funnels.
Your Fan Page (your show)—I know, Facebook no longer calls this a “Fan Page,” they
call it a “Page,” but I’m old school and still call it a Fan Page because it helps me to
identify its goal in my marketing plan. This is where you are “buying your way in.” After
you post content on your Fan Page, you will be paying (“buying your way in”) to boost it
to the followers of your Dream 100.
Groups (your hangout)—This is where you throw your own social networking party and


--- PAGINA 111 ---

build relationships with your tribe.
Messenger (your distribution channel)—This is one of the most powerful distribution
channels that you have to get your message quickly to your most hyperactive followers.
I will now dig deep into the publishing strategies of each of these four areas of the Facebook
platform.
Your Personal Profile Strategy (Your Home)
Before we start our social networking, we need to make sure that our home, or personal
profile, is ready when people start coming over. Most of your interaction online will be
happening through your personal profile. As you comment, share, help, and engage with other
people, they’ll see how much value you’re providing and click to see your profile page. If you
structure your profile page correctly, it will grab your dream customers who are looking for
more information about you and turn them into traffic that you own. Facebook allows people
to “follow” your personal profile, but you have to turn it on in the settings. Make sure you give
people that ability, because even though you can only have 5,000 “friends,” you can have an
unlimited number of followers.
Figure 11.2: If your profile page is set up correctly, it can convert people who want to know more
about you into people on your lists.
Getting your profile set up correctly: There are three things that you can customize on
your personal profile. You have to be careful because Facebook doesn’t want your personal
page to be for business, so none of these elements are meant to be a hard pitch for anything;
instead it serves as a landing page where people can get to know you better and decide to be
a friend or follower who will see your status updates in the future.
Your cover photo: You can design and upload a cover photo that represents you and
your brand. It’s an image that your visitors will be able to see and know that they’re in
the right place. Do not put a CTA on your cover photo, as this screams that you are trying
to sell something on your personal page.
Intro section (your business card): In the intro section of your profile, you’re able to
tell a little bit about yourself.
Featured Image: You can feature an image from a post you’ve made here. I have a
picture of my three books. When someone clicks on that image, they are taken to a post
where I have links to the three books in the description. This is the first way that I start
filling my funnels from my personal profile.
What’s on your mind? (conversations at your “home”): As you are “working your way in”
and people are coming back to your “home” or profile page, they will see the recent
conversations that you’ve started, and if a hook grabs them, it will pull them into your
conversations and into your funnels. These conversation starters will also show up in the feeds
of your friends and the people who follow you. Each post is an opportunity to hook someone,
tell them a story, and get them to take some action.
If you’ve read the earlier chapter on Instagram, you will notice that the strategy here is very
similar to how we post on our Instagram profile. If you remember Jenna’s JK5 Method, we


--- PAGINA 112 ---

each picked five categories that represent our brand. My categories are family, funnels, faith,
entrepreneurship, and personal development. Just like I rotate through these five categories
as I’m posting images to my Instagram profile, I rotate through these same categories as I’m
posting “what’s on my mind.” If all the personal posts are about business, oftentimes
Facebook will shut you down for operating a personal page like a business page, so by
diversifying what I post over those five categories, I am at less risk, and it also builds a
connection with my followers outside of just my “work.”
The big difference between my Instagram profile and my Facebook personal profile is that
on Facebook, this is my home, so I’m okay with starting conversations with a goal to direct
people into a funnel. Typically, Facebook will penalize personal posts (not show them to many
people) that have a link in the status update, so I will typically make the post telling the story
and then have the link to the CTA in the comments section. Here is an example of a post I
made recently that follows this process:
Figure 11.3: To encourage Facebook to show my post to more people, I’ll often post my CTA link
in the first comment instead of in my actual post.
I try to make at least one update to my personal page each day. These updates are more
than just an image and a caption; typically they are a longer form story, structured almost like
a Daily Seinfeld email where I have a hook, tell a story, and make an offer.
Each day, as I’m trying to figure out what to post, I ask myself, What’s the hook that will
make people want to hear this story? The hook could be a quick headline or a picture, but it
should be something that will stop people scrolling through their newsfeed. After I place the
hook, I tell the story, give the rant, or share the big “aha” that’s been on my mind that day.
Then after I tell the story, I figure out how that ties back into where I want to send someone.
What’s the offer I want to make to them? Sometimes the offer is as simple as wanting them to
like my post, leave a comment, or tell me their story. Other times, the offer is for them to listen
to a podcast episode or read a blog post. Still other times, I ask for the big offer, and I direct
them to one of my front-end funnels.
My secret for figuring out what to post each day comes back to the JK5. I open my phone
and look at the picture albums I set up to categorize all of my images. I look through the
album for the category that I’m posting about that day, find an image that will work as a hook,
tell the story behind the image, and then make my offer. You can also go Live on your personal
profile and tell your story through video, but I personally like to save my Live videos for my
Fan Page (so I can pay to boost them) or for my group where I’m using it as a way to “hang
out” with my tribe.
As people come to your page from different sources, they’ll first see your billboard (cover
photo) and find out what you’re all about, then they’ll see your business card (the intro
section) and finally they’ll see your conversation starters (your posts). If one of these hooks
grabs them, you’ve started a conversation on your wall with your dream customers. As people
comment on your posts, be sure to spend some time replying to their comments. This one
small act speaks volumes, and it helps to build relationships with your dream customers.
Your Fan Page Strategy (Buying Your Way In)
When Facebook first launched, it was structured so that each profile could only have 5,000
friends, and that limit remains to this day. Having this limit helped keep the integrity of


--- PAGINA 113 ---

Facebook as it was growing by keeping people’s news feeds filled with the things and people
they actually cared about, which helped cause a deeper addiction to the platform. The
problem was that it made it hard for businesses and brands to really do business online,
because their pool of potential customers was just 5,000 people. Other social networks didn’t
have this limitation, which caused people to mass create accounts to build up fake followings.
Later, Facebook did create a way where people could follow your personal profile without
being an actual “friend,” which has made the strategy I shared earlier so much more powerful.
A few years later, on November 6, 2007, Facebook launched “Pages” (which I’ll refer to
through this book as “Fan Pages”), where a person or a brand could have followers or fans on
that page.30 There was no limit to the number of fans that someone could have. Adding Pages
gave Facebook the ability to see the things people were interested in more closely, and this
paved the way for Facebook’s advertising platform that we came to love so much.
The first question I get from almost everyone I know who starts trying to drive traffic from
Facebook is, “Do I need a personal page and a Fan Page, or can I use just one?” My answer
always is that you need both. Each has a different role, and both are essential. Your personal
profile is how you get free, earned traffic (working your way in), while your Fan Page is how
you get the chance to buy traffic (buying your way in).
You should view your Fan Page more like your website. Julie Stoian, who has served as the
ClickFunnels VP of Marketing, said:
Think of your Facebook page as the Facebook version of your website. I treat this page
very carefully. I only put the most curated and the best content on this page. It is the first
impression for anyone who sees your paid ads. They will click on the profile of the brand
running the ad, and your Fan Page is what they will see. I treat this page almost like my
YouTube profile, where, when people come to it, they will see the brand, but then they will
hopefully start engaging with all of the videos and images and things that have been
posted there. My test for if something should be on my Page is this: Is this content good
enough that I will spend at least $10–$20 to boost it? If you’re not willing to pay for ads to
that content, then do not post it on your Fan Page.
Now, before I scare you away from posting anything on your Fan Page, I want to talk about
the types of things that we do post there. The key is to post things that you believe will get
high engagement from your fans. If your engagement is low, it will make all your posts across
your Page go down, but if a piece of content you post has high engagement, then everything
will go up. Often, I’ll use my personal profile or my Instagram feed to start testing material
and images and find the hooks and stories that people resonate with, and then I’ll turn those
things into more produced content on my Fan Page that I can boost with money.
There are four things that we post on our Facebook Fan Pages. Let me walk you through
each one and the strategy behind how we use them.
Figure 11.4 We have a specific strategy for each area of the platform, including our Facebook Fan
Page.
Produced value videos: These are videos that have a good hook and story but no offer. The
direct response marketer in me hates these videos, but the branding marketers loves them.
For some reason, when you have a CTA, people will rarely share your videos. By not having a
CTA, if people love the videos, they’ll like, comment, and share, and that’s how you get paid


--- PAGINA 114 ---

for this content. This increased engagement will boost everything else you do on your Fan
Page. In Gary Vaynerchuk’s book Jab, Jab, Jab, Right Hook,31 he talks about the strategy of
giving (jabbing) good content and building a relationship before you do the big ask (right
hook). Because of that, we will try to do three to four content videos for everyone that is
pushing a hard CTA.
Live value videos: These videos are almost the same as our “produced value videos” except
that they aren’t pre-produced. We go Live on the platform, and in real time we deliver the
message. Facebook currently favors Live videos over published videos, so we do these often.
There are also some powerful software tools that will let you take a produced video and
stream it through their services so it’s published as if it’s live. I’ll link to some of these
services in the resources section here: TrafficSecrets.com/resources.
Live perfect webinars: These are the “right hooks” that will become your big paydays. If
you’ve been providing value, now you have the opportunity to actually sell to your audience. In
Expert Secrets, I shared my “Perfect Webinar” script, and I showed you Kaelin Poulin’s
“Perfect Webinar Hack,” where Kaelin started using this script on her Facebook Lives to direct
people into her front-end funnels. Jaime Cross from MIG Soap also modified this script into the
“Five-Minute Perfect Webinar” that is a powerful and simple script to use on your Facebook
Lives to drive people into your front-end funnels. You can print out these scripts for your own
use by going to TrafficSecrets.com/resources.
Curated content from your other platforms (reruns): I’ll take content that I’m posting on
my other social networks that are getting high engagement and post it on my Fan Page. I don’t
link out to that other content; I’ll actually repost it here natively. For instance, with my
YouTube videos, I’ll upload them to YouTube, but I’ll also upload them separately to Facebook.
I look at this reposted content similarly to how we view reruns on TV. The videos are there,
and we may watch and engage with them, but we’re eagerly waiting for the new episode of
our favorite show that is coming out soon.
After we post any of this content, we always do exactly what Julie suggested: I spend $10–
$20 boosting that content. Sometimes the goal is to get engagement on the pitch-free content
(with a goal to increase what happens when I post my Live perfect webinars). When there is a
Live that pushes to a funnel, if I at least break even on my ad spend, I’ll keep running the ads
until I start losing money. Sometimes the Facebook Live video ad will be profitable, and we
may keep running ads to it for months!
Your Groups Strategy (Your Hangout)
When I got started online, before there was Facebook, there were forums. I was a member of a
dozen or so marketing forums that I would frequent each day to ask questions, get answers,
and grow my personal brand. The owners of those forums were powerful. They had a huge
congregation of people hanging out at the party that was happening at their house every day.
The conversations that happened inside of these forums were the things that shaped our
industry. I realized that if I wanted to have control over the direction of our market, I needed
to be the one who ran the parties where everyone hung out. After all, the person throwing the
party generally has the most influence in the group.
I decided right then that I needed to start my own forum. Back then, I had to get software to
run a forum, servers to host the site, and about a dozen other things. It took me a few months,
but I finally ended up launching a forum that grew pretty large. About that time is when
Facebook launched their “groups.” I was a little hesitant to create a new group, but because
traffic on my old forum was drying up as people were shifting their habits to Facebook, we
decided to give it a try.
We created the first “official” ClickFunnels group and invited our new customers into it. At
first, we used it as a way to help take some of the responsibility of support off our shoulders
and get the community to help serve each other. But then it started to grow. We told new
members to come join our community to meet other funnel hackers and share their ideas, and
then Facebook started to promote the group as well. Soon we had thousands of people a week
joining without us spending a penny on advertising. As of the writing of this book, we have
over 223,000 people in that group and Facebook adds over 1,200 new members per week! Our
members currently average a total of over 317 posts a day (that’s one every five minutes
around the clock). There are over 9,414 comments and reactions per day (that’s one every
nine seconds and well over a quarter million each month). Some of our top posts can get
30,000–50,000 impressions each, which is all free organic traffic.


--- PAGINA 115 ---

Facebook wants people to build groups, and as of this writing, they are rewarding people for
doing it. I saw a commercial on TV the other day from Facebook promoting groups! Yes, they
are actually buying commercials on TV to promote them. Can you see the irony there? One of
the biggest advertising platforms in the world is trying to find more ways to get people
building groups on their platform. For some reason, they want people building groups to
increase the experience for their users, so this is where we’re spending a lot of our time now.
Your group is your own personal party. It’s a place on social media for your people to gather,
hang out, and talk. I’m a big believer that most companies should have a group where the
members of their community can network. It will become a huge source of traffic for you, help
turn your warm audience into raving fans, and give you the ability to be an influence on the
most important group in your marketplace.
I try to do a weekly “hangout” in my group where I can talk to our tribe and build a personal
relationship with them. As of today, we have over 1,000 people per month that join
ClickFunnels directly from this group, so the more I can jump in and build relationships with
them, the better. I don’t typically structure my hangouts; instead I jump in, tell a story, and
take open questions from people in the group. At the end, I’ll typically make a CTA for people
to go get their free ClickFunnels trials, and then I’m done. It’s a really fun part of my week
and it can help to endear your tribe back to you.
Your Messenger Strategy (Your Distribution Channel)
Facebook Messenger started as a simple way for us to chat with our friends who were also on
Facebook, but in 2016, Facebook opened their “bot” platform.32 Over the past few years, these
bots made it possible for marketers like us to use Messenger in a similar way to email
autoresponders. It gave publishers the ability to message subscribers directly with news and
other information, and it also gave them the ability to set up basic chats between their
subscriber and the Messenger app. Essentially, you can pre-write questions and answers to
help solve your subscribers’ problems or you can direct them somewhere else.
If you’d like to build lists, set up sequences, do broadcasts, and more, go to TrafficSecrets.co
m/resources to see an up-to-date list of some amazing companies that have built awesome
Messenger integrations. I won’t mention any specific ones in the book because companies
come and go, but I’ll update the list online so it always has the best Messenger integrations to
work with.
Messenger has rules to protect it from being used as a platform where people are sending
out spam, and because of that, if you’re too aggressive, they can and will shut you down. So
it’s essential to use it in a way that enhances users’ experience instead of in a way that annoys
them. We rarely, if ever, send out more than one message per week. Most of our messages try
to create engagement before a link is sent. A great way to do this is to send out quizzes or
interactive conversations, basically anything that will keep engagement high and complaints
low. If you do that, you’ll be able to use Messenger without any issues.
Growing your Messenger list: There are three core ways that you can grow your Messenger
list.
First, when people come to your Fan Page, you can have Messenger pop up to start a
conversation that will add them to your Messenger lists.
Figure 11.5 To grow your Messenger list, you can have Facebook automatically pop up a
Messenger window in the lower right-hand corner. When they chat with you, they’re automatically


--- PAGINA 116 ---

subscribed to your Messenger list.
Second, on your landing pages, you can have people select a box that will add them to your
Messenger lists. Most of the Messenger chat-bot growth tools make it easy to add this to your
landing pages.
Figure 11.6: You can also grow your Messenger list by adding a Messenger checkbox to your opt-
in forms. When they check the box, they’ll be automatically subscribed to your Messenger list.
The third (and my favorite) way is to create a simple lead magnet and leverage your Fan
Page to grow your Messenger list. Some of the Messenger growth tools make it easy to add
people to your lists when they do a certain action. For instance, when people click a button on
your post or comment with a certain keyword, you can add them directly to a specific
Messenger list and it will send them a lead magnet right away.
Alison Prince showed me my new favorite model for how to do this. She is a member of my
Inner Circle (my high-end coaching program), and she has a company teaching people how to
start a business online selling e-commerce products. She will do a Facebook Live teaching “10
tips to . . .” or “seven tools that. . .”–type videos where she shares a list of cool things with
people. Then she designs a really nice PDF with the things that she talks about on her Live.
Throughout the Live, she’ll show a printed copy of the lead magnet and tell people if they
want a free copy, they just need to comment using a certain keyword and she’ll send it to them
through Messenger. Every time she goes live, she’s adding hundreds of new people to her
lists.
Publishing to your Messenger lists: Because my Messenger list is such a valuable asset,
and because I don’t own it (Facebook owns it and can shut it off at any time), I treat it very
carefully. When someone first joins your list, you want to get them to interact with your
Messenger bot because this helps to increase the engagement. Ultimately, this increases your
ability to continue to send that person more messages in the future.
About once per week, we try to send out some type of conversation. Notice that I said
“conversation” and not message. We don’t just broadcast out a message for someone to go and
visit a funnel. Instead, we’ll ask them a question like, “Hey, are you still looking for ways to
generate more leads online?” If they respond back with a yes, then I might say something like,
“Cool. I have some new training that I think you’re gonna LOVE, but I wanted to see if you’d
rather have it as an audio file, a video, or a transcript.” After three buttons pop up with these
options, they can click one of the choices, which will take them to the next step in the bot’s


--- PAGINA 117 ---

conversation.
Figure 11.7: With Messenger, I can set up automatic conversations to reach my followers inside
Facebook.
I personally like to use bots to guide people toward content on Facebook’s platform (like a
Facebook Live on my Fan Page) and have the actual selling happen off Messenger. That gives
me an arm’s distance from Messenger and selling anything directly through it. It also helps to
boost my Facebook Live, which Facebook loves, and gives my subscribers value before I make
them the offer.
Your Publishing Plan
We’ve covered a lot of things about publishing on Facebook. We talked about the core ways
you publish inside Facebook with special focus on:
Your personal page
Your Fan Page
Your groups
Your Messenger lists
Each of these sections inside of the platform has a different strategy for how you publish. To
make sure you hit each part of Facebook effectively to find and serve your dream customers, I
have created an at-a-glance publishing plan so you can quickly see what content you should
publish in each area, with your daily and weekly activities broken down into a simple, step-by-
step process.


--- PAGINA 118 ---

Figure 11.8: Use this publishing plan to see at a glance where you should focus your efforts on
Facebook.
STEP #4: WORK YOUR WAY IN
If you’ve done steps one through three and your personal profile is set up, then your house is
now in order and you’re ready to start being social and actually network. We do this by finding
the groups in our marketplace that have already congregated our dream customers. First, I
want you to focus on finding and joining the right groups. When you click on the group tab,
Facebook will suggest groups that it thinks you’ll like based on the influencers and brands
that you’re already following. You’ll also be able to see the groups’ names and how many
members are in each group.
Similar to the strategy used for influencers and brands, your goal with groups is to get
access to at least 1 million people through them. I look at the suggested groups, join the ones
that have bigger member counts, and continue searching for more. After this initial exercise,
you’ll see new groups marketed to you through your Facebook feed, so I recommend
continuing to join the groups that have already gathered your dream customers.
For example, if I’m a photographer and I type “photography” into the group search in
Facebook, it will pull up dozens of groups I can join. In this case, there are over 507,000
people at four parties talking about photography. These are the parties that I’ll be going to
and networking at. Keep going to parties (i.e., joining groups) until your reach in these groups
is over 1,000,000 people.


--- PAGINA 119 ---

Figure 11.9: Join as many groups in your niche as you can until you’re able to reach over
1,000,000 people.
Now, some people think that networking means going into these groups, spamming out links
to your front-end funnels, and hoping that people will click on them and join your lists. This is
not what I’m talking about. In most groups, this will get you kicked out almost immediately
and will ruin your reputation in that market. Instead, every day I go into each of those groups
and try to see what questions people are asking that I know the answer to. As soon as I can
think of something awesome that I can share, I write a value-filled post and post it in the
group. No pitch . . . no ask . . . just value.
That is the secret to good networking. You are coming to serve, and if you do it consistently,
people will see you, and they will follow you back to your home. But the secret is giving
without withholding. This is the beginning of your value ladder, and the more value you give
up front, the more people will want you.
After I make my post, I scroll through the other questions and try to comment or reply to at
least three questions per group, and that’s it. I spend 30 minutes total each day participating
in these groups, providing value, and answering questions, and then I’m done. Consistency is
the key. Keep providing value, and do not sell anything. Remember, your goal is to become the
cool kid at the party, and if you provide value, everyone will want to come back to your house
to hang out.
This strategy takes a little time, but if you are consistent and people see you showing up
consistently, they will want to find out more. They’ll click on your profile, and they will follow
you. You’ll be pulling people from these cold and warm groups and turning them into hot
traffic that will start engaging in the conversations that you’re posting on your own personal
profile.
STEP #5: BUY YOUR WAY IN
There are a lot of companies who don’t really want to get into the whole publishing game and


--- PAGINA 120 ---

want to focus only on paid ads instead. While I think that’s very shortsighted, I do understand
because it allows you to get ads up and running and to be able to test offers quickly. If you
decide to start solely with paid ads, I would still recommend going back sometime soon and
building the content foundation because doing so will create a more stable long-term
foundation for your business.
As I discussed earlier, when new platforms come out, content creators are rewarded with
free traffic to create adoption on the platform. Soon, though, the platforms transition to paid
ads, and the content creators see less and less free traffic. Eventually, they have to pay for
traffic, as this is where the platforms will make their money long-term. So even if you’re
getting traction with your content strategy, it’s essential to master paid ads if you want to be
relevant long-term to amplify the content, videos, and ads that you create.
All the paid ads happen on your Fan Page. This is where you can boost/pay to get your
content shown to the followers of your Dream 100. Every video you post, every image you
publish, and each post you write on your Fan Page can be promoted through Facebook’s Ads
Manager. You can also make “unpublished posts” that don’t show up on your feed, but that you
can start using to throw out hooks to grab the attention of your dream customers. Remember
from Secret #9 that the more creative you can put out, the more success you will have. Use all
these hooks to grab your dream customers from your prospecting pools, pull them into your
retargeting buckets, and direct them to your funnels.
STEP #6: FILL YOUR FUNNEL
As you know, the last step of the framework is to take all this attention and use it to fill your
funnels. At first, you do it by “working your way in.” As you go out into Facebook’s groups and
start networking and providing value, you will be pushing people back to your personal profile
(your home). On your personal profile, you will be rotating through the JK5 categories and
making posts that can hook people when they show up on your page, as well as your friends
and followers, and direct these people into your funnels.
To build an even stronger relationship with your friends and followers, you can invite them
to come to your own social networking party (your group) where they can network with others
and be part of your weekly “hangout” meetings. On your personal profile, they are only able to
respond to posts you make, but here they can start their own conversations and get a sense of
belonging inside your tribe.
After your social networking strategy is up and running, transition your focus to “buying
your way in” with your Fan Page, where you will be producing and posting content that you
feel good enough about spending $10–$20 to boost it. These will be seen by your existing
audiences and help to build a stronger relationship with them, as well as directing them back
into your funnels, but you will also be targeting the followers of your Dream 100 and the
interests of your dream customers. This means that you are paying for these videos, posts, and
ads to show up in their news feed.
Remember to study Secret #9 to know the best way to target your dream customers and
pull them into your funnels. Your number-one goal is to transition the traffic that you are
earning and buying into traffic that you own by taking them through one of your front-end
funnels.

