# CHUNK 4 (Paginas 61-80)


--- PAGINA 61 ---

When you look at just these four “break-even” funnels during a 30-day window, the total
stats look like this:
Front-end revenue: $142,822.76
Front-end ad costs: $128,405.07
Total profit: $14,417.69
So while it looked like our company was doing about a million and a half dollars a year in
top-line revenue, it was only actually making a little over $10,000 per month. From the
outside, this looked like a failing business, and it would have been if we didn’t understand the
strategy behind traffic, funnels, and the value ladder. But when you do understand those core
principles, then the stats look a little differently. This is how we looked at those stats:
New leads added to my list (traffic that I own): 14,205 people
How much I got paid to acquire those 14,205 people: $14,417.69
That’s right. I didn’t just get free leads, I actually got paid over $1.00 for each person who
joined my list that month. After we plugged these leads into my follow-up funnels, we ended
up making a total of $16.49 in sales from every $1 we made inside of our funnel within 30
days of each lead joining.
Figure 6.1: With follow-up funnels, we were able to grow our profit from just $1 per customer to
$16.49 per customer in a 30-day period.
Yes, those 14,205 people ended up collectively spending $234,240.45 within 30 days inside
our follow-up funnels, and all of that money was pure profit because I didn’t have to pay Mark
Zuckerberg over at Facebook or Larry and Sergey at Google any of it. I wasn’t trying to
control the traffic or earn it; it was mine. Once someone is on my list, I can then send out
follow-up messages to them anytime I want for free because I now own that traffic!
In my follow-up funnels, I sent those 14,205 people emails with free videos to build a
relationship with them. A few days later, I invited them to come watch my webinar where I
taught them how ClickFunnels worked to grow as a company. Not all wanted to watch the web
class, but 1,129 did and registered for it. At the end of the web class, we sold a product for
$2,997, and 57 people bought it (grossing us $170,829). Over the rest of the month, some
signed up for the ClickFunnels trial, some bought other books, and some bought courses and
coaching. In the first 30 days, we multiplied our profits by more than 16 times. When you look
over the next 60, 90, 360 days and beyond, you’ll see that each lead can and should be worth
thousands of dollars to you, and if you can break even (or even make a little profit) to generate
that lead, you should do it all day every day.
VC-backed companies will go in the hole for 6–12 months or more to generate a customer.
That’s right, they sometimes don’t break even for over a year, but they can do that because
they’re burning someone else’s money.
THE SECRET TO QUICKLY GROW YOUR LIST WITH PAID ADS
Ideally, we break even in our initial funnel, but sometimes it might take us a few days or
weeks to break even using our follow-up funnels. Many times, people will lose some money
inside of their front-end funnels and not break even immediately, and because of that they get
scared and walk away from it. If they looked closer at their numbers, though, they’d see that
they might have been just a few days away from breaking even and that they could still have
kept running ads to those funnels profitably, even at a loss. Let me show you how this works.


--- PAGINA 62 ---

Let’s say that you decide to buy Facebook Ads to a lead funnel that doesn’t actually sell
anything immediately. You’re just giving away a free report of some type of lead magnet with a
goal to generate a lead that you can plug into your follow-up funnels. In this example, let’s say
that you’re spending $3.00 to generate each lead.
Figure 6.2: If all we had was a front-end funnel, we would lose money on every lead we acquired.
As of right now, this funnel seems like it’s a dud, right? Well, without the follow-up funnel, it
would be. When someone joins my list, I’ll build a relationship with them. I might send them a
few emails making sure they’re able to download the lead magnet I gave them for free, and I
might even send a video or an article helping them to get more value from the thing I just
offered them. At that point, I would still be $3.00 in the hole for each lead, but I would be
building a relationship with them, which means they would be more likely to open my emails
and buy things from me in the future.
Figure 6.3: With a follow-up funnel in place, we’re able to continue the conversation with our
leads.
Here’s where the fun begins. The next set of emails in my follow-up funnel would be focused
on introducing them to the next funnel in my value ladder. For this example, let’s say it was
one of my free book funnels. I would send them three emails inviting them to get a free copy
of my book when they cover shipping. Those who get a free copy will be taken through that
sales funnel, and I should make some profit from each book buyer. In this example, on
average, I would make $1.00 from each lead who went through this second step. As of day six


--- PAGINA 63 ---

in this follow-up funnel, I would still be -$1.50 in the hole.
Figure 6.4: When we offer our leads the opportunity to ascend our value ladder and buy our book,
we start recouping some of our ad spend.
The next step in the follow-up funnel would be to move them into one of my higher ticket
funnels. We call this “funnel stacking.” In this example, the next thing I would invite them to is
one of my web classes. I might send a few more emails inviting them to register for the
webinar. After they went through that webinar sequence and I made an offer for one of my
higher ticket products, the average dollar per lead would increase past the $3.00 I spent for
the lead. At that point, I would break even and start making a profit. That means within about
a week of paying for that lead, I would be in the black! Anything that those customers bought
from me in the future would be pure profit.
Figure 6.5: After we stack multiple funnels back-to-back in our follow-up funnels, we make a
profit.
Are you seeing how this works? Sometimes the break-even happens inside of the initial
front-end funnel, but other times it happens within the follow-up funnel. As soon as I know
that I break even on day X of my follow-up funnel, then I go back and spend money to acquire
customers, knowing that I’ll have a return on that investment at an already established point.
When I first started on my online journey, I heard Mike Litman say, “Amateurs focus on the
first sale.”13 I didn’t really understand what that meant until I started using follow-up funnels
and realized that I could spend way more money to acquire a customer than I initially
believed. Dan Kennedy once said, “Ultimately, the business that can spend the most to acquire
a customer wins.”14 With good funnels and a strong follow-up funnel, you can increase how
much money you can spend to acquire a customer.
MULTIDIMENSIONAL FOLLOW-UP FUNNELS
So far I have only talked about emails inside your follow-up funnels. In a perfect world,
everyone who got an email would read it and click on the links inside. Unfortunately, with
people’s attention spans today (down from 20 minutes in the ’90s to just seven seconds
today!), a lot of the people you send emails to will never actually open them. Some stats show


--- PAGINA 64 ---

that as much as 87 percent of emails go unopened! You’re battling for attention every time you
send anything.
As the war for attention has grown, a lot of amazing tools have been created that we can
plug into our follow-up funnels to make sure people actually see our message. My hope is that
this list of tools will continue to increase, but I’ll share with you the ones that I see as the most
powerful today.
Retargeting: The first, and one of my favorite tools to plug into my follow-up funnels, is
retargeting ads. We’ll go deep into our retargeting strategy in Secret #9, but for now, I want
you to be aware of what they are and how they work. Have you ever been to a website, and
then over the next few weeks, it seems like they’re stalking you online? Everywhere you go,
you see their banner ads following you around? That is retargeting, and it’s one of the most
powerful ways to push someone through your follow-up funnels and ascend them up your
value ladder.
Messenger: In 2011, Facebook created their Messenger program which, for many people, has
replaced email as their favorite communication tool. You can add Messenger subscriber boxes
into your funnels and get people joining your email list to also join your Messenger lists. This
gives you the ability to follow up with people through a different channel than email. It’s a
very powerful tool that has a much higher open rate than email. However, because of the
intimacy of people’s Messenger inboxes, I’ve found that unlike email, where I can send email
daily and not have many people upset, with Messenger, I can only send one or two messages a
week without losing many subscribers. We strategically place Messenger messages within our
follow-up funnels to create a conversation about once or twice per week with a goal to direct
people back into a funnel or ascend them into the next one.
Text Messages: We don’t normally try to get someone’s phone number on a traditional
landing page, because each new field traditionally lowers conversions, but I do try to grab a
phone number when people buy something from us or when they register for a webinar. We
can use text broadcasts to make sure people don’t miss the webinar they’ve signed up for, let
them know the statuses of their orders, and help move them into the next step in our value
ladder.
There are always new communication tools being developed, but their goal is the same:
build a relationship with your subscriber and ascend them through your value ladder.
Now that you see how follow-up funnels work, I want to spend a minute on the psychology
and sequencing of follow-up funnels.
THE 3 CLOSES: EMOTION, LOGIC, FEAR
As you have seen, we have a lot of tools that we can use to try to get someone to buy from us.
But what should go inside of each message? We’ve found that the ones that give you the most
leverage include messages based on:
Emotion
Logic
Fear (urgency and scarcity)
Figure 6.6: Whenever you close someone, make sure to include in your message emotion, logic,
and fear.
The most powerful way to get someone to take action is by using emotion. It’s often been
said that people buy things emotionally and then try to justify their purchase logically. If
you’ve read Expert Secrets, the entire book is focused on story selling, which shows you how
to tell stories to break false beliefs and put people into an emotional state where they are
ready to change and ready to buy. This is the most powerful way to create emotion in the
minds of your visitors and get them to take action. That’s why most of our ads lead with


--- PAGINA 65 ---

emotional stories. The lead of any sales letter, the stories in my webinars, the first emails in
our follow-up funnels, and the first ads in my retargeting sequences always speak to people’s
emotions. This is where the majority of your sales will happen too.
For example, take this sketch of a very basic “free book”–style sales page, like the one you
may have seen before you purchased this book. The top of the page has a headline that
appeals to one’s emotions, a video telling stories to get one emotionally interested in the
product, and then an order form for one to take action. Fifty percent of my sales will come
immediately from people who only see this top block and never scroll. They’re my emotional
buyers.
Figure 6.7: Every sales page we create has this same style because it addresses the emotion,
logic, and fear messages in the order required to create the sale.
The next 30 percent of buyers are a little bit harder to convince. They’re the analytical
buyers. They may have felt something emotionally, but they need to be able to logically
convince themselves that the purchase is right for them. Often they’re afraid of what others
will think if they buy it, because they have a fear that their status will decrease if the product
doesn’t work for them. So under this top section of the page, I transition my message to speak
toward their logic. I explain why this is a good deal and compare it to other investments they
could make. I also let them know about the money-back guarantee if it doesn’t work so they
won’t risk a decrease in status. Lastly, I try to use as much risk reversal as possible.
The last 20 percent of buyers aren’t as motivated by emotion or logic, but they are
motivated by a fear of missing out (FOMO). The only thing that will get them to take the leap
is for them to be afraid that you’re going to take it away. Urgency comes from you giving them
all the reasons why they need to buy it now, and scarcity comes from all the reasons why this
will be gone soon. For this last group, I close almost every sales presentation, letter, and
sequence focusing on urgency and scarcity.
I just showed you how the process of Emotion → Logic → Fear works on a landing page, but
it also works inside of every follow-up funnel and retargeting sequence.


--- PAGINA 66 ---

Figure 6.8: We build emotion, logic, and fear messaging into our follow-up funnels to help our
audience purchase our products.
When someone joins a follow-up funnel, my first set of messages focuses on the emotion as I
tell stories of other people who have used the product and share the hidden benefits. After a
few days, I switch all my messaging to logic, and then the last set of messages will switch to
fear.
If I’m only sending out three emails in that step of the follow-up funnel, then I have one for
each of the three closes. If I have five emails, I might spend the first three days on emotion,
one day on logic, and one day on urgency and scarcity. The number of messages matters less
than making sure you hit each of the closes, because each one will bring in a different group
of buyers.
As I make my transition to the next funnel in my follow-up funnel, I start over with emotional
story selling again and get people engaged about the next funnel in the value ladder. This
process is true in every type of messaging you put out. When your goal is to move people
through a process or funnel, every type of communication you send should start with emotion,
move to logic, and end with fear (urgency and scarcity).
FOLLOW-UP FUNNELS (SOAP OPERA SEQUENCES) VS. BROADCASTS (DAILY SEINFELD
EMAILS)
In DotCom Secrets, I talk about the two types of communications I have with people after they
join my list: Soap Opera Sequences and Daily Seinfeld Emails. I’ve found that a lot of people
get confused on how those types of communications work and how they tie into follow-up
funnels, so I wanted to spend a minute showing how these concepts fit together.
When someone first joins my list, I take them through a process called the Soap Opera
Sequence. We call it that because the emails aren’t stand-alone messages, but instead we will
use multiple emails to tell a story, where each email hooks you to read the next email in a way
that is similar to how a good soap opera will use their storyline to pull you from episode to
episode. In these emails, we tell our readers a story that will build a relationship and rapport.
That way, they’ll be more likely to keep reading our emails, clicking on our links, and buying
our products.
The second type of communication is the Daily Seinfeld Emails that are more similar to
episodes of the Seinfeld show. Each email is a stand-alone message that has a hook, tells a
story, and then pushes back to your core offer. We use these each day as we send a broadcast
to our list with a goal of getting them back into our funnels. Some people have thought that
these two ideas were opposing, and others have asked how they fit into the follow-up funnel
framework. The truth is they both work together inside of your value ladder.


--- PAGINA 67 ---

Figure 6.9: After a lead has gone through your entire Soap Opera Sequences for all your funnels,
then you can send them your Daily Seinfeld Emails.
When someone first joins your list, we plug them into a follow-up funnel. Immediately,
they’re put on a Soap Opera Sequence where we tell them stories (providing an emotional
close) and lead them through our follow-up funnel. The first set of emails are all about
building rapport. Readers usually connect with your story (as you’re the Attractive Character
in your business) because you’re the one who will likely be communicating with them.
Then we transition to the first funnel we’re going to promote in our sequence. We start
“Season Two” of our Soap Opera Sequence (SOS) with the stories behind the new
product/funnel that we’re introducing them to. We transition the SOS from us (the Attractive
Character) to the first product we want to introduce. The SOS moves through emotion, logic,
and fear, and it guides people into and through that first funnel. When it’s over, we move to
“season three” of our SOS and start our new story about the new product/funnel that we’re
introducing them to.
The Daily Seinfeld Emails come after someone has moved through all the Soap Opera
Sequences inside of the value ladder and they are done with our follow-up funnels. In a
perfect world, we’d have follow-up funnels that lasted 40 years, but the reality is that most
good follow-up funnels are effective for 30–60 days. After that, people drop off the core list
that has ascended your people through your value ladder, and then they’re moved to our daily
broadcast list. This is the list that we use to send our daily story-based (Seinfeld) emails to
lead people to our new front-end offers and get them to re-register for our webinars and
promote our blog posts, podcast episodes, and affiliate offers. This is the bucket we put people
into after they have dropped out of the back end of our follow-up funnel.
The next secret will show you how to infiltrate your Dream 100, build your own distribution
network (your own show), and find your voice.


--- PAGINA 68 ---

SECRET #7
INFILTRATING THE DREAM 100
From 1989 to 1994, there was a late-night talk show called The Arsenio Hall Show. My
parents didn’t watch it, so I never had a chance to watch it at home. I do remember, though,
that my friend’s parents watched it every night, and often my best friend would tell me about
it. One summer night during a sleepover at their house, we stayed up late and I had my first
chance to see the famous Arsenio Hall in action, running around doing his “Woof! Woof!
Woof!” chant as he pumped his fist in circles. We used to mimic this on the playground for
years afterward every time we would score a touchdown or a home run. His shtick became
ours, and we thought we were so cool every time we did it.
Over the years, I had a chance to see his show a few other times. I remember being amazed
at the energy of his show and the amazing guests he’d bring on. In June 1992, he had Bill
Clinton on while Clinton was running for president. Clinton played “Heartbreak Hotel” on the
saxophone, an act considered by many to be the most important moment in his political career
for helping to build his popularity among minority and younger voters.15
Just two short years later, the show went off the air, and, for most of us, we never heard
Arsenio’s name again. That is, until 2012 when he showed up as a contestant on Celebrity
Apprentice. I watched that season, trying to learn business lessons for growing my company
from Donald Trump and the contestants. Each of the episodes gave me a few ideas, but the
biggest gold nugget was dropped in episode seven.16
It was so simple that I think almost everyone missed it. For some reason, though, it caught
my ears, and it’s been running through my mind now for almost a decade. Let me set the
scene for you. The two competing teams were tasked with raising money for charity, and all
the contestants were making phone calls to their rich friends and asking for donations. Penn
Jillette was able to get the Blue Man Group to perform on the streets of New York City and to
donate money. Every celebrity was able to raise some money, except for one: Arsenio Hall.
I watched as Arsenio opened his Rolodex of celebrities and made calls for hours. Each call
went to voicemail. He got one commitment from Jay Leno, but the check showed up past the
deadline and didn’t count toward the competition. In the final scene before the boardroom,
Arsenio’s frustrated teammates tried to figure out why he didn’t raise any money.
Defeated, Arsenio explained that everyone used to answer his calls when he had his own
show. But when he didn’t have his own talk show, his so-called friends avoided him.
And that was the big takeaway! When you have your own show, everyone answers your calls.
Earlier we talked a lot about the Dream 100, and how you can work your way in or buy your
way in. In either of those situations, you have more leverage when you have your own show, or
your own platform. When Arsenio had a talk show, if he called anyone (even the future
president of the United States), they would take the call because they knew that he could
provide a platform for them that they couldn’t get otherwise.
Your platform is the true value that you have to provide your Dream 100. It’s more valuable
than money, gifts, or anything. The Dream 100 want exposure, and your platform can provide
that for them.
As cool of a person as I think I am, I’m sure that if I didn’t have my platform of over 2 million
entrepreneurs among my email lists, social lists, and podcast listeners, it would have been
very difficult to get Tony Robbins, or any of my Dream 100, to return my calls, respond to my
emails, or be interested in working with me. None of these people needed another friend.
They did need, however, access to my platform, and so that gave me the ability to get my foot
in the door, build friendships, and start partnerships. This is the key to working your way in.
Recently, I heard Gary Vaynerchuk speaking at an event for digital marketers where
someone asked him where the future of marketing and attention is going. His response was
very profound:
I think this [holding up his cell phone] is the television in 1965 . . . And the TVs, they’re
the radio, right? . . . The one thing I do study is history, because history loves to repeat
itself. So, if you go look at the brands (the beer brands) that were romantic about staying
on the radio, because that’s how they did it and didn’t shift to television, while things like


--- PAGINA 69 ---

Miller Lite (that nobody had ever heard of) went TV only and became the brand.
If you look at TV in 1965, that’s what I think this [the cell phone] is, and I think that
YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, and Snapchat are ABC, NBC, and CBS . . . And then I think
I, within it, [am] M*A*S*H* and Happy Days. So that’s the system . . . And so what you
need to do for your business is figure out the channels where you could be the star of that
network.17
Figure 7.1: Find the “channel” where you can be the star, then build your show there.
As powerful as that statement is, the more powerful thing to understand is that today you
don’t have to convince a network that you should have your own show. Instead, you can click a
few buttons and that fast you can have a show on all the major apps.
Right now, the ABC, NBC, and CBS’s on people’s phones are:
Facebook (talk show)
Podcasts (radio)
YouTube (sitcom)
Instagram (reality TV)
Blogs (newspaper)
Figure 7.2: All the previous forms of communication have modern-day applications.
More apps/channels will pop up, but as of right now, the majority of eyeballs are focused on
these apps, which each gives you the ability to create your own show for free.
But is having your own show the same as having your own list? I would say that the answer
is, “Kind of.” With your own list, you own the traffic, but with your own show, you’re renting
space and trying to earn eyeballs on someone else’s network. That was the problem for


--- PAGINA 70 ---

Arsenio. When Fox dropped his show, it was over. If Facebook decides they don’t like your
show for some reason (and they’ve been known to do it), they can cancel your show or your
account without a warning. The same is true with podcasts, Instagram, and YouTube.
Now, imagine if Arsenio Hall understood the principles you learned in Secret #4, and if,
during each episode of his show, he had told his viewers to go to his funnel and opt in to get
his top 100 favorite jokes for free. In that case, he could have built a list of millions of
subscribers on the network’s dime, and when the show got canceled, he still would have had a
platform because he still would have had his list. He could have moved to a new channel,
launched a podcast or a blog, emailed his followers, and guided his followers to his new show.
Until you own the traffic, you’re always left to the whims of the network. So even when
starting your own show, remember that the goal is still to turn that traffic that you’re earning
into traffic that you own.
YOUR PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL: EMAIL
The key to success with your show is how many people you can get to actually consume what
you’re creating. You might be able to rely on each platform promoting you for free, but I never
like to include that as part of my marketing plans. Sometimes we’ll create an episode that
goes viral and we’ll get millions of views for free, but that’s not something we bank on.
Instead, we need to ask ourselves, “After my new episode is live, how can I get people to go
and consume it ASAP?” The best way to do that is to leverage the list that you’ve already been
building.
Figure 7.3: The modern-day application of direct mail is email.
We spend all our efforts to convert all traffic we control and traffic that we earn into traffic
that we own (our own list) because when we have our own list, we control our own destiny.
I’ve had friends who relied 100 percent on Facebook or YouTube’s algorithms to promote their
videos. A lot were blessed with amazing reach, many of them getting tens of millions of views
for each video they would publish. Unfortunately, each platform’s algorithms changed (as they
always do), and many of these same people now struggle to get a few hundred views. For that
reason, I always look at free, viral traffic as the gravy on top of what might come if I promote
the video to the best of my abilities, and I make my number-one goal first and foremost to
promote each episode I publish.
In addition to email, you’ll want to continue to build up other lists and distribution channels,
such as direct messenger lists on Facebook and followers on Instagram, so you can do “swipe-
ups.” Each platform has its own version of a list, but email is the only one you own; you’re
renting all the rest and you could lose them at any time.
YOUR PRIMARY SHOW CHANNEL: TEXT, VIDEO, OR AUDIO
The next logical question you might be asking yourself is, “Which channel do I create my show
on?” My response would be, “It depends on you.” To begin with, you shouldn’t try to create a
show on every channel. Doing that will hurt your ability to grow at all. For now, the key is to
focus on one channel. In Secret #15, Conversation Domination, I’ll show you how to leverage
your primary show to get distribution across all channels, but, for now, you need to focus on
just two channels: your primary distribution channel (email) and your primary show channel.
The channel you should be growing your primary show on depends on you, your personality,
and your talents. For those of you who love writing, I’d focus on creating a blog.


--- PAGINA 71 ---

Figure 7.4: The modern-day application of newspapers is a blog.
If you hate writing, but you love the idea of being on video, then I’d recommend you build
your show on one of the video channels (each one has a different strategy that we’ll go deeper
into in the next section).
Figure 7.5 The modern-day applications of sitcoms, talk shows, and reality TV are respectively
YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram.
For those who have a voice for radio or who may be a little nervous about being on camera,
then I’d recommend starting your own podcast.
Figure 7.6: The modern-day application of radio is a podcast.
If you’re still not sure which platform you’d like to create your show on, I’d recommend
looking at which platform you consume the most content on. Typically, if you love YouTube and
spend a lot of time watching videos, you’re going to have the best success creating videos for
that platform, because you understand it. If you listen to podcasts a lot, that’s probably the
best place to start. Similarly, if you read a lot of blogs, that’s probably the best place to start.
Because we spent so much time talking about your “Primary Distribution” channel (email) in
Secret #7, I will spend the rest of this chapter talking about your “Master Show.” Remember
that for now, you should only be building one show on one channel. Do not try to build more
than one at this point. In Secret #15, I will show you how to leverage this one primary channel
into all the secondary channels, but that does not come now. Focus all your efforts on making
your first show successful.


--- PAGINA 72 ---

Figure 7.7: Once you have your primary show, you’ll use your distribution channels like email,
Messenger, and “swipe-ups” to notify your audience there are new episodes.
STARTING YOUR SHOW (FINDING YOUR VOICE)
On March 26, 2013, I launched my first episode of my Marketing in Your Car podcast, which
later became the Marketing Secrets show. It seemed as good a day as any to launch it, outside
of the fact that in the prior few months I had almost bankrupted my company, fired about 100
employees, found out that I owed over $250,000 to the IRS (which if I didn’t pay soon would
mean even more fines and possible jail time), and had almost no money left in the bank
account with tons of credit card debt piling up. Looking back now, it seems like the worst
possible time to have launched a podcast teaching people my “secrets of marketing,” yet
that’s exactly what I did.
I knew that if I was going to do my own show, I had to be consistent or it wouldn’t work. Out
of all the types of shows that I could publish (audio, video, or text), I knew that it had to be
simple or I’d never stick to it. When I considered how to work it into my everyday routine, I
realized that every day I had a 10-minute commute to my office. I figured that I could record
each episode on my phone as I drove to work. In the episodes, I would share my thoughts
about what I was doing to market my business and the lessons I was learning each day. That’s
how it got its original name: Marketing in Your Car.
The first episodes were not good. In fact, years later, my friend Steve J Larsen told me, “The
first 45 or 46 episodes weren’t very good, but then around that time is where it seemed like
you found your voice, and they started getting better and better after that.” The good news for
me (and also for you) is during your first episodes, the ones where you are the worst, no one is
listening to you yet! If I hadn’t done the first 45 episodes, I never would have gotten to
episode 46 where I started to hit my stride. That’s why it’s so essential to start publishing your
show now, even when you’re not good at it. In the process of doing your show, you will find
your voice. I am so grateful that I actually had no idea how to check the download stats to see
if anyone was listening to me when I first got started, because I’m sure that I would have been
discouraged and stopped. Don’t look at your stats, downloads, or numbers at first, because
you’re just trying to build the foundation for something great, and it will take time.
About three years into my podcast, I learned how to check the download stats and
discovered that I had tens of thousands of people listening to every episode. I also found out
that the majority of the people who had joined my highest-level mastermind groups and
coaching programs had all been podcast listeners first. When I asked our coaching members
about it, the pattern of how most of them came into our higher-end programs was shockingly
similar. So many told me that they would listen to a few episodes, and then for some reason,
an episode would connect with them. It made them want more, so they would go back to
episode one and binge listen to every episode over a week or two period of time. During the
episodes, I documented my journey as I was building back up my company. I’d share stories of
the people that I had a chance to work with; usually before these listeners had finished
binging, they had applied to work with me.
Without selling ads in my podcast, promoting my own or other people’s products (both


--- PAGINA 73 ---

things that you can and probably should do to make money from your show), I was just telling
stories of my own and from my clients. Yet that podcast has converted more casual followers
into raving fans than anything else I’ve ever done. But it didn’t start that way; it took over
three years of consistent publishing.
Let me walk you through the steps that will make your own show a success.
Step #1) Publish daily for at least a year: The first commitment that you have to make is
that you will be consistent. I knew when I started that if I didn’t find a platform that was easy
for me and easy to create the content, I wouldn’t be consistent. What platform makes the most
sense for you? How and when are you going to publish? Do you wake up each morning and
write a 1,000-word blog post before lunch? Do you do a Facebook Live before you go to bed
each night sharing the day’s lessons? What works for you that will help you to be consistent?
If you can publish every day for a year, you’ll never have to worry about money problems
again. During the process, you will find your voice, and your audience will have time to find
you.
One of my friends, Nathan Barry, wrote this post recently, “Endure Long Enough to Get
Noticed”:
How many great TV shows have you discovered in season three or later? I started
watching Game of Thrones after they had released five seasons. Pat Flynn had released at
least 100 episodes of his podcast before I even knew he existed. I discovered Hardcore
History years after Dan Carlin started producing it.
This is such a common experience. There is so much content being produced that we
can’t possibly discover it all. So instead, we wait for the best content to float to the surface
after time. If step one in building an audience is to create great content, step two is to
endure long enough to get noticed.
Seth Godin is very generous with his time and will appear on almost any relevant
podcast—but you have to have recorded at least 100 episodes first. His filter is creators
who have shown they are willing to show up consistently for a long time.18
For those of you who have been around me for any amount of time, you know that this is a
soapbox that I’m very firm on. You must be publishing or you will never become relevant, and
you must continue publishing if you want to remain relevant. This part of the traffic flywheel
does not go away.
Steve J Larsen knew when he bought his first tickets to Funnel Hacking Live that I was
probably going to tell everyone this eternal truth, but as he packed his bags, he told his wife,
“I will do everything that Russell says at this event . . . except publishing my own show. I won’t
do that.”
Before lunch on day one, I told everyone that the number-one thing they could do from now
until next year’s event would be to pick a channel and publish daily on it. I told them that if
they did that every day for a year, they would never need to worry about money again. And
then I did something I hadn’t before; I made everyone in the audience commit to me that they
would start publishing that day.
Most of the people in the room raised their hands and were excited to take the challenge,
but very few took what I said at face value. But when one person, Steve J Larsen, made the
commitment, the one that he went in knowing he wasn’t willing to make, he decided to go all
in. He decided to start a podcast, and at that event, he started creating his first episodes.
About a week later, he applied for a job at ClickFunnels and became my new head funnel
builder. He sat next to me every day for the next two years. As I was working on my projects,
he watched me share (publish) all the lessons I was learning along the way. I was podcasting,
posting on Facebook, doing Periscope shows, and more. He told me that he was shocked at
how much I published, and so he modeled what I was doing.
For the next two years that he worked at ClickFunnels, he kept publishing his show; after a
few months it started getting some traction. It kept growing over the years, and when he
decided to make the jump from being an employee to becoming his own entrepreneur, he had
a large following of people who were consuming everything he was publishing. That show and
his following became the launch pad he needed to launch his career. He had the fans and a
following, so he simply introduced them to the new offers he had created, and he became an
“overnight success.”
Step #2) Document the journey: The biggest question and the largest fear that most people
have when I tell them to start their own show is they have no idea what they will talk about.
One of the most powerful things I learned from Gary Vaynerchuk is a concept he calls


--- PAGINA 74 ---

“Document, Don’t Create.” I’m sharing an article from his blog going deeper into this concept:
If you want people to start listening to you, you have to show up. What I mean by this is
there are a lot of you out there who aren’t producing enough articles or videos or pieces of
content that should be produced to build your influence. Too many “content creators”
think that they only have one at bat—they have to make the one, most beautifully created
video or image or rant on Facebook.
But what they don’t realize is that their hunger to make the perfect piece of content is
what’s actually crippling them.
It’s true that if you want to be seen or heard on social media, you have to put out
valuable content on a regular basis. You should be doing a YouTube vlog or podcast or
some sort of long-form audio/video series at least once a week. You should be posting on
Instagram and/or Snapchat stories at least six to seven times a day.
Now you’re probably thinking, Whoa, that’s a lot. How do I create six to seven
meaningful things a day?
I’ll give you the biggest tip when it comes to content creation: Document. Don’t create.
In very simple terms, “documenting” versus “creating” is what The Real World and The
Kardashians is to Star Wars and Friends. And don’t get confused—just because you’re
“documenting” doesn’t mean you’re not creating content. It’s just a version of creating
that is predicated more on practicality instead of having to think of stories or fantasy—
something that’s very hard for most people (including myself).
Think about it: you can ponder about the strategy behind every post and fabricate
yourself into this “influential person” . . . or you can just be yourself.
Creating this influential persona might seem especially hard if you’re just someone
starting to climb the ladder. And I get it—for some of you there’s a lot of pressure in that.
You think that some 30- or 40- or 50-year-old is going to listen to your rant video with
cynicism and think, What does this kid know?
But, one of the biggest mistakes people make when creating content for their personal
brand is trying to oversell themselves because they think that’s what’s going to get
people’s attention. Whether you’re a business coach or motivational speaker or artist, I
think it’s much more fruitful to talk about your process than about the actual advice you
“think” you should be giving them.
Documenting your journey versus creating an image of yourself is the difference
between saying “You should . . .” versus “My intuition says . . .” Get it? It changes
everything. I believe that the people who are willing to discuss their journeys instead of
trying to front themselves as the “next big thing” are going to win.
So, when I say to put out those six to seven meaningful pieces of content a day, pick up
your smartphone, open Facebook Live, and just start talking about the things most
important to you. Because in the end, the creative (or how “beautiful” someone thinks
your content is) is going to be subjective. What’s not subjective is the fact that you need to
start putting yourself out there and keep swinging.
Starting is the most important part and the biggest hurdle that most people are facing.
They’re pondering and strategizing instead of making. They’re debating what’s going to
happen when they haven’t even looked at what’s in front of them.
So do me a favor and start documenting.
“Okay, I started, Gary. Now what?” you ask. Keep doing it for another five years and then
come back to me before you ask again.19
People who are tuning into your show are typically doing it because they’re looking for some
type of result. It’s the same reason why they buy your products, open your emails, and engage
with your content. People listen to my podcasts, read my books, and watch my videos because
they’re trying to figure out more ways to market their business. I’m not publishing because I
know everything about this topic, I’m publishing because I’m obsessed with this topic. I’m in a
constant search for new and better ways to market my own company, and as I run across
them, have ideas, and read cool things, I’m sharing them with my people. As my friend Rich
Schefren once told me, “We get paid a lot to think for other people.”
So my first question for you as you start your show is this: “What is the big result that you’re
obsessed with? What are you trying to learn for yourself anyway that you can document as
you’re discovering it in real time?”


--- PAGINA 75 ---

Figure 7.8: On your show, you can document your journey, test your material, and find hooks.
When you listen to the introduction to my podcast, I call out the big question that I’m
answering on my show:
So, the big question is this: “How are entrepreneurs like us, who didn’t cheat and take
on Venture Capital, who are spending money from our own pockets, how do we market in
a way that lets us get our products and services and the things that we believe in, out to
the world, yet still remain profitable?” That is the question, and this podcast will give you
the answers. My name is Russell Brunson, and welcome to the Marketing Secrets podcast.
Figure 7.9: In my podcast, I document my journey in real time.
Inside of this frame, I can talk about, share, and interview people on anything related to
helping people sell more of the things that they believe in. Since I started this podcast on the
back of a huge business failure, most people would have thought it was the worst time ever to
start a podcast, let alone one about marketing a business, but looking at it through the
“Document, Don’t Create” lens reveals that it was the perfect time to start the podcast. In
fact, I wish I would have started it 10 years earlier when I had first gotten online, because I


--- PAGINA 76 ---

would have had so many more interesting things to share as I was learning them all the first
time. In any case, how cool is it now, six years later, that I have documented the entire journey
from business failure to growing ClickFunnels to being an over $100-million-per-year
company? Even more importantly, tens of thousands of people have been able to follow us on
that journey and learn the lessons as I was learning them!
Step #3) Testing your material: Recently, I was at a private mastermind retreat in Wyoming
with a handful of influencers who had collectively made billions of dollars online and
influenced hundreds of millions of people. One night as we were sitting around a campfire,
Dean Graziosi shared an insight that has changed how I look at the material that I’m
publishing. His story, from the best of my memory, went something like this:
You know how when you watch an amazing comedian perform onstage on a late-night
talk show, every joke he tells lands perfectly? You find yourself wondering, “How is this
guy so funny?” But what you don’t realize is that over the last 10 years, as he started his
journey to become a comedian, he would write out 10 jokes, go to the closest dive bar,
stand up on stage, and deliver his jokes. He probably watched as one or two of the 10
jokes landed, and the rest bombed. He would then go back home, take the two jokes that
landed, and then write eight new ones. The next week he would find a new place to
perform, deliver his 10 jokes, and maybe find that one of his new jokes actually landed.
Now he has three jokes in total that he can use. He goes back to his apartment and starts
the process over again, doing this week after week, year after year, until he’s found his 10
jokes. Now he’s ready. That’s when we get to see him, after he’s perfected the material,
when he stands up on stage, and lands every joke on the biggest stage in the world.
I look back at my journey and think about my first book, DotCom Secrets. I was so scared
when I finished writing that book that I didn’t want to give it to people to read. But what most
people didn’t realize was that a full decade before I wrote that book, I earned that book. I was
obsessed with marketing, and I read, watched, and listened to everything I could get my
hands on. After that, I would test the concepts and ideas on the little businesses I was
creating. I also tested the concepts on other people’s businesses as a consultant. Some ideas
worked, while others failed.
I started teaching at small seminars and workshops. I would explain concepts and watch to
see which ideas made sense to people and which ideas were confusing. At each event, I would
teach the concepts again, over and over, tweaking and refining the ideas and stories every
time. I did interviews, podcasts, videos, and articles testing my materials over and over again.
From this work came the frameworks like the value ladder, the secret formula, the three types
of traffic, funnel hacking, and the Attractive Character. I was testing my material for over a
decade, and so while I was nervous for others to read the book, I was also confident knowing
that it was ready.
The same thing happened with Expert Secrets. I spent two years talking about the concepts
on my own podcast and on other people’s podcasts. I developed ideas on Periscope and then
Facebook Live. I ran events, workshops, and coaching programs testing the ideas on others’
businesses as well as mine, and the end product was the book.
Today, as I’m typing this current book in the passenger seat of an RV while my wife is
driving and the kids are playing in the back, I’m just as nervous about putting it out into the
world as I was with my very first book. Yet I know that I’ve been testing this material for the
past two years on every platform that I have had access to, and it’s ready.
Publishing your show daily, as you’re documenting your journey, will give you a chance to
start testing your material. You’ll discover what messages connect with people, which
episodes get shared, and which ones don’t. You’ll see which messages get people to show up
and comment and which messages don’t connect. It’s this very process of you showing up
consistently and publishing that will help you to refine your message, find your voice, and
attract your dream customers to you. It doesn’t matter if your end goal is a book, a webinar, a
keynote presentation, a viral video, or something else, the more you publish and test your
material, the clearer your message will become and the more people you will attract.
Step #4) Introduction to Your Dream 100: When you start your show, typically you’ll use
the first few episodes to tell your origin story, why you created the show, and what people
should expect. These initial episodes are important because there will be people who find your
show a week from now, some a year from now, and others won’t find it for years, but when
they do, and when they get hooked, most people will go back to episode one and binge-listen
(or read or watch) to catch up on what they missed. Even though these early episodes are old,
they’ll still likely be a starting point for many people that fall in love with your content.


--- PAGINA 77 ---

After the initial episodes, it’s time to start using your show to infiltrate your Dream 100. This
is the secret to getting amazing new content for your show, and it also gives you the ability to
leverage your Dream 100 as guests to grow your show.
Figure 7.10: To grow your show, reach out to your Dream 100 to see if you can be a guest on their
show.
Think about how this works on TV. Let’s say that The Tonight Show wants to get a lot of
people to watch their show. What do they do? They try to find the most relevant, interesting
guests possible to be on the show, right? But they don’t stop at that. All week leading up to
that interview, they’re promoting their guest on every distribution channel they have access
to. You’ll see commercials all week leading to the interview talking about who’s going to be on
the show, and you’ll see clips during the commercial breaks leading up to the show, showing
the funniest or most intense parts of the interview. The host is leveraging the guest to attract
more viewers. The same will be true for your show.
Who are the people on your Dream 100 that have an interesting story they could tell that
will relate to your show and have a following of people that you can promote their episode to?
You have a platform that you can now leverage to get people on your show, and they have a
network that you can advertise their episode to. It’s a huge win-win. In a perfect world, they
would promote their episode to their entire following when it goes live (and that does happen
at times), but even if they don’t promote, you can still buy ads targeting their audiences on
Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, or wherever their following is.
Now, I know what you’re probably thinking, That’s great, Russell, for people who already
have relationships with their Dream 100, but what about me? I’m brand new. My show has
almost no followers, so why would any of them want to let me interview them? The reality is
that many people you ask will say no, and that’s okay, because you don’t need everyone. You
just need one: one guest that you can then leverage to get the others.
Typically, most markets have a “good ol’ boys” club atmosphere, and usually a lot of your
Dream 100 will be in one or more clubs. To infiltrate and get access to that club, you don’t
need to get access to all of them; you just need to have one of the cool kids think you’re cool,
and then you’re in.
One of my favorite illustrations of this point was in the movie Never Been Kissed, starring
Drew Barrymore (Josie) and David Arquette (Rob).20 In this movie, Josie is a writer for the
Chicago Sun-Times and gets a job to go undercover back to high school to get a story on
teenage culture. She struggles to get in with the cool kids, and her brother Rob tells her the
secret: If she can get one person to think she’s cool, then she’ll be in, because everyone else
at school will be too scared to challenge it. Rob then demonstrates this principle as he
registers for school, becomes popular within a day, and uses his popularity to get Josie into the
cool kids’ club.
A few years ago, I got a phone call from a guy named Tellman Knudson who was just
starting his own company. He knew I had a list of subscribers (apparently I was on his Dream
100 list) and he wanted to ask if I would promote a summit he was creating to my list. I
decided the idea he was pitching me on wasn’t a good fit, and I told him no.
I assumed this was going to be the last that I heard from him, thinking that most of the
people on his Dream 100 probably would have told him no as well. He didn’t have a list or a
platform; he just had an idea and some hustle. About six months later, out of the blue, I started
getting dozens of emails from some of the most respected list owners in our industry, all


--- PAGINA 78 ---

promoting Tellman’s new summit.
Interested in what happened, I gave Tellman a call and asked him how in the world he was
able to get all of these huge list owners to promote for him.
He responded, “I made a list of the people I wanted to be part of this promotion, and then I
started calling them. The first person told me no, and the second person said the same thing. I
kept calling and kept getting noes. Somewhere in that list I called you, and your answer was
the same, but I was determined to make this work no matter the cost, so I kept calling.”
“How many people did you end up calling?” I asked.
“Forty-nine.”
“You called forty-nine people?”
“No, I got forty-eight noes, but the forty-ninth person said yes! I knew that after I had one
yes, I was in. I asked him if he knew anyone else that might be interested, and he gave me
three names. I called each of them, and they all said yes. I asked them for referrals, and they
all said yes as well! As my list of yeses grew, I started calling people who told me no and
showed them the people who were now involved and had said yes, and many of the noes I had
received earlier turned into yeses. I received forty-eight noes in a row, and then the next thirty
people all said yes.”
That promotion ended up building Tellman a list of over 100,000 people in just a few short
months, and that list generated him over $800,000 in sales during his first year online. This is
the power of infiltrating your Dream 100.
So your job now is to look at your Dream 100 and start asking them to be on your show.
Many will say no, but don’t let that stop you. You only need one yes.
As you have a chance to interview your Dream 100 on your podcast, you’ll be giving them a
platform for which they’ll be grateful. You’ll be able to spend time building a relationship as
you interview them on your show (digging your well before you’re thirsty), and you can tap
into their audience to promote their episode, build your show, and get access to their
followers.
PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER
I’ve explained a lot of concepts in this chapter, so I want to recap it all into something a little
more tangible.
Step #1: The first step is to figure out what type of show you want to have. If you’re a writer,
then you should start a blog. If you like video, then you should start a vlog on one of the video
platforms. Lastly, if you like audio, then you should start a podcast.
Step #2: Your show will be you documenting the process of achieving the same goal that your
audience will be striving for. As you’re documenting your process, you’ll be testing your
material and paying attention to the things that people respond to. If you commit to publishing
your show every day for a year, you’ll have the ability to test your material and find your voice,
and your dream customers will be able to find you.
Step #3: You’ll leverage your Dream 100 by interviewing them on your show. This will give
you the ability to build relationships with them, give them a platform, give you the ability to
promote their episode on your show to their audience, and get access to their friends and
followers.
Step #4: Even though this is your own show, you’re renting time on someone else’s network.
It’s important that you don’t forget it and that you focus on converting it into traffic that you
own.


--- PAGINA 79 ---

Figure 7.11: As you create your own show, focus on converting traffic that you earn and control
into traffic that you own.
And with that, I will close out Section One of this book. So far, we’ve covered a lot of core
principles to traffic. We:
Identified exactly who your dream client is.
Discovered exactly where they are congregating.
Talked about how to work your way into those audiences (traffic that you earn) and how
you buy your way into those audiences (traffic that you control).
Learned how to take all the traffic that you earn and all the traffic that you buy and turn
it all into traffic that you own (building your list).
Discussed how to plug that list into a follow-up funnel so you can move them through
your value ladder.
Prepared to infiltrate your Dream 100, find your voice, and build your following by
creating your own show.
In the next section, we’ll shift our focus to mastering the pattern to get traffic from any
advertising networks (like Instagram, Facebook, Google, and YouTube) and how to understand
their algorithms so you can get unlimited traffic and leads pouring into your funnels.


--- PAGINA 80 ---

SECTION TWO
FILL YOUR FUNNEL
In the first section of this book, we focused on truly understanding who your dream customers
are, finding out who has already congregated them, and learning how to get access to those
people and get them onto your lists. In this section, we’ll be shifting more into the tactics of
how to fill your funnels with your dream customers on the following four advertising
platforms:
Instagram
Facebook
Google
YouTube
I could have gone deep into dozens of other platforms, including LinkedIn, Snapchat,
Pinterest, TikTok, and Twitch, but I’m only exploring these four platforms in order to show you
a framework and pattern that you can learn and use on any platform that you’d like to get
traffic from in the future. Depending on when you’re reading this book, admittedly, some of
these platforms may no longer be relevant, and there will likely be many to come that no one
has even heard of yet.
Showing you the strategy and tactics on one platform is the equivalent of “giving a man a
fish,” and teaching you the framework to get traffic from every platform is the equivalent of
“teaching a man how to fish.” As you read the following chapters, you’ll learn the pattern and
see its practical application throughout the four most important networks today, helping you
to master the frameworks that will fill your funnels with your dream customers.
THE “FILL YOUR FUNNEL” FRAMEWORK
Figure 8.1: This quick sketch will help you remember the six steps inside the “Fill Your Funnel”
framework.
Step #1—Understand the history and the goal of the new platform: If you want to know
where the platform is going, you have to know where it came from. How did Google start?
Where did Facebook come from? How did the algorithms change and, more importantly, why
did they change? What was the purpose behind them? If you can understand why they made

