# CHUNK 5 (Paginas 81-100)


--- PAGINA 81 ---

the changes, then you can start thinking like them. You can understand their goals and
intentions.
This is so important because by the time you are reading some of these chapters, the
algorithms may have already shifted, so it’s essential that you understand the history so you
can see where we are today.
As you start getting a layout of each platform’s history, you’ll quickly start to see what their
end goals are. Each platform has a goal to make the best user experience for their end user as
possible. That’s what keeps their people coming back again and again. Google wants to make
sure that they give their users the best search results possible. Facebook wants to make sure
you love the things that show up in your feed. Once you understand that creating the best user
experience possible is their goal, then you can start asking yourself how you can align with
their goals. The goal of spammers is always to hack the algorithm to get what they want,
which always provides short-term gains, because as soon as the spammers are identified, the
loopholes that they have been exploiting are taken away. Instead, if you align with the wills of
the network and give them what they want, then they’ll give you what you want: tons of
traffic.
Step #2—Find and model your Dream 100: The next question is, who on this platform has
already figured this out? Who has already identified your dream customers, who is publishing
to them, and who is getting rewarded by the platform by getting tons of views or likes (or
whatever the reward system is for that network)?
As you start this part of the journey, I want to bring you back to the core questions we asked
in Section One.
Question #1: Who is your dream customer?
Question #2: Where are they congregating?
Asking these two questions should then get you to ask the next question:
Question #3: Who are your Dream 100 on this platform who have already
congregated your dream customers?
When I first went onto Facebook or Instagram (and I did the same things on other networks
like Twitter and LinkedIn), I looked to see the Dream 100 who had already mastered that
platform. Who had the big followings and tons of engagement with my dream customers?
Then I built out a new Dream 100 list specifically for each of those platforms, and I followed
each of them. I needed to be able to see exactly what they were doing, because if they were
having success, it meant that they were in the front of the algorithm. They’re doing what the
platform wants, so if you want to know what the platform wants today, in real time, then you
have to be watching closely what they’re doing in real time.
Here are the three things it will take to funnel hack social algorithms:
1. Follow each of your Dream 100 and spend 10 minutes each day watching what they
are doing. Write down the answers to these questions:
What are they posting?
How are they getting people to engage with what they post?
What paid ads are they running?
2. During these 10 minutes, try to comment, like, and engage with as many things they
are doing each day as possible.
3. Notice the pattern of what is working right now and model it for your posts (funnel
hacking). This will give you a pulse on what is working in the market on that platform
right now. It gives you the ability to see in real time what the algorithms are
rewarding today.
Before we go further, though, I want to talk about modeling and funnel hacking.
Unfortunately, too many people will read what I wrote above, and, if I’m not careful, they’ll
start copying the inspirational quotes or videos they see other people posting. Then they’ll
come to me and say, “Russell, I copied it like you said, and it’s not working.”
Funnel hacking is not copying. Funnel hacking is modeling, and there is a big difference
between copying and modeling. Every day, I look at over 100 people’s posts, videos, ads, and
quotes, and that helps me to gather inspiration for unique things that I can create. You’re


--- PAGINA 82 ---

looking for the types of things the platforms’ algorithms are currently rewarding that you can
then model.
For example, a few years ago on Facebook, I noticed that some of the people I follow in the
fitness market had created what are now called “memed videos,” where they added a headline
in the actual video, usually above and oftentimes below the video. They were new at the time,
and not many people were doing them. For some reason, though, that style and layout got tons
of views, comments, and shares—all of the things that we know Facebook loves.
Figure 8.2: These memed videos got us a ton of comments, likes, and shares.
I saw this new pattern interrupt working, so we quickly modeled or “funnel hacked” this
concept and started making our own memed videos. We were one of the first, if not the first, in
the marketing world to use these. Because no one had seen them, every video we published in
this format got more comments and engagement than anything I had ever seen before. Soon,
though, others noticed how well this pattern interrupt worked, and they modeled it. Within a
few months, hundreds of marketers were doing it, and most of my feed was filled with memed
videos.
When the pattern interrupt becomes the pattern, it stops being as effective. Notice that I
didn’t say they stop working; they just become less effective. So if you are starting right now,
and you see all of your Dream 100 doing something, you should still model what they’re doing.
It may not be as effective as a new pattern interrupt, but it is the current pattern that is
working, so that’s where you start.
After you model the pattern that’s working, the next phase of funnel hacking the social
algorithms is to look for and test ideas that will become the next pattern interrupt. For
example, a few weeks ago I noticed that some of my Dream 100 started posting strange posts
on Instagram that looked like this:
Figure 8.3: We realized that quote cards like these created a pattern interrupt for our audience.
I had never seen anything like that before, and, honestly, I didn’t really like it. It was
different, though, so we decided to test the pattern interrupt and see if it would work for us. I
made my first post modeling this style, and, sure enough, it was a winner. We now post images
similar to this on Instagram a few times per week, and we’ll continue to do that until we find a
new pattern interrupt that works better. Following your Dream 100 lets you have your fingers
on the pulse of what’s working currently in each platform. You can model ideas that they’re
trying, come up with your own unique ideas, and test them both to see which ones stick.
Because the algorithms are always changing, it’s essential that you network with and stay


--- PAGINA 83 ---

close to your Dream 100. They will be the ones who will also have a vested interest in staying
in front of the algorithm changes, and it can be super useful to have a sounding board of
people in your market during the inevitable changes that will come.
Step #3—Identify the publishing strategy and create your publishing plan: Each
platform has multiple ways that you can publish your content, so it’s essential to understand
the strategy for each section and how you can weave it into your daily publishing schedule.
For example, Instagram lets you do stories that are similar to a reality show, but you also have
your profile, which is more like a picture gallery. Questions I would start asking myself are:
“How often should you be doing Stories and what do you post on your profile, and how often?”
Instagram also lets you do “Lives” that are similar to a talk show to your following and they
have IGTV for your “how to” content. There are a lot of possibilities, so you want to
understand all the publishing opportunities on each platform, decide which you want to focus
on, and figure out a plan to make it simple to consistently publish on your chosen platform.
Step #4—Work your way in: After I start publishing on each platform and I have content
that my dream customers can see, I look for ways to work my way into the Dream 100. I start
asking myself the question, how can I get organic, free exposure to the audiences of the
people who have already congregated my dream customers, and then get these people to join
my lists and become traffic that I own?
Step #5—Buy your way in: While I’m working my way in, I want to stimulate growth as fast
as possible. The best way is to buy ads targeting the followers of my Dream 100 and then get
these people to join my lists and become traffic that I own. I discuss buying your way in to
audiences throughout this book, but Secret #9 goes a lot deeper to help you understand the
paid advertising frameworks that you can use to master paid ads on each platform.
Step #6—Fill your funnel: As you’re publishing, working your way in, and buying your way
in, the goal is always to convert all the traffic and attention into traffic that you own. You do
that by pushing people into your funnels where you can get their contact information, sell
them your front-end products, and then push them through a follow-up funnel to ascend them
up your value ladder.
These six steps make up the “Fill Your Funnel” framework and will help you to master every
platform and stay on top of what’s working in the moment. I’ve taken a snapshot in time of
how each of the following platforms work and then applied this framework to them. That way,
you can see how I think, and then you can understand what I’m looking for as I create my
publishing plans and figure out how to work my way in and buy my way in to the following of
my Dream 100. My goal is to help make this pattern so second nature to you that by the time
you’re done reading, you will know “how to fish.”


--- PAGINA 84 ---

SECRET #8
FILL YOUR FUNNEL ORGANICALLY
(Working Your Way In)
It’s hard for most of us to remember, but it wasn’t too long ago that we used the internet
differently than how we use it today, back when there was no social media. There were forums
and message boards that allowed people to share their thoughts and ideas, but, for the most
part, we went online to search for things we were looking for.
When the social movement started and sites like Friendster first popped up, followed shortly
thereafter by Myspace, Facebook, and Twitter, we marketers all knew there was an
opportunity to make money by leveraging these platforms, but we didn’t know how. Most of
our early attempts, if we are completely honest, were us just posting links to our funnels and
other things that nowadays people would consider spam. We saw a huge congregation of
people, and we tried everything in our power to get our messages in front of them. Most
things we tried didn’t work, at least not long-term.
I was frustrated with the new social platforms, thinking that they didn’t work as a good
vehicle to get traffic. Inevitably, I stopped trying to figure them out for a few years altogether.
Instead, I focused my energy on free and paid search, banner ads, and email marketing, and I
stayed away from social media like it was the plague.
Around this time, Twitter started to make its big run. It became the fastest growing new
social network at the time, and everyone was jumping onto its bandwagon. In fear of missing
out on the next big trend, I jumped on and started tweeting. At first, it made no sense to me,
but all the cool kids were doing it, so I tried. I grew my following, and then I did the only thing
I knew how to do as a marketer: I started to promote my products. To my annoyance, not only
did I make very few sales, but my marketing also killed the engagement that I had built up
with the few people who followed me.
Then I watched as Perry Belcher, one of the people on my Dream 100, joined Twitter. In a
matter of months, he built a following of over 100,000 people, set up a webinar for those
followers, registered over 20,000 people, and made over a million dollars in sales from that
one webinar!
I watched in awe as he did it, and so I did what any good funnel hacker would do: I tried to
reverse engineer his process. The more I dug into what he was doing, the more confused I
became. He wasn’t posting any ads. He wasn’t talking about his products. Every post he made
had thousands of people commenting, sharing, and growing his brand for him.
I finally reached out to him and asked if he’d be willing to explain his strategy to me. Luckily
for me, he agreed. We quickly jumped on a phone call together, and it went a little something
like this:
“Hey, Perry,” I said. “I’ve been trying to figure out how to make money with all this social
networking stuff, and it’s not working. I see on the outside what you’re doing, but it all seems
backward. You’re not promoting anything, you’re not selling anything, yet you’re making a ton
of money. What are you doing?”
Perry kind of laughed and said, “That’s your problem, Russell. Guess how much money I try
to make with social networking.”
“As much as possible?” I guessed.
I could hear him grin on the other end, and then he said, “Zero. None. That’s how much I try
to make with social networking. Social networking is not about making money; it’s about
making friends. It’s just like how we do business in person. Let me show you how I view social
media and how we use it to grow our companies. If you look at the social networks, we have
Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, etc. . . . I view all of these networks like I’m going to a party. So,
if I’m on Twitter posting messages and responding, it’s like I’m at a party. Does that make
sense?”
“Um . . . kinda,” I replied. “But I’m still not sure how that makes us any money.”
“Well, when you go to a party, do you just talk about what you do? ‘Hey, I’m Perry, and I sell
stuff. Would you like to buy some stuff from me?’ No, of course not. If you did, you’d be the
biggest jerk at the party. Everyone would avoid you. And that’s what you’ve been doing on


--- PAGINA 85 ---

social media, Russell. I’ve been watching you, and that’s why it’s not working for you.”
“Okay, then what do we talk about on the social networking sites? As an introvert, I’ve never
really networked in real life, so I’m not sure how or what I should be saying.”
“You talk about what’s going on in your life,” Perry responded. “You talk about your family,
tell them stories, entertain them a little bit, ask them questions, and introduce them to other
cool people who are at the party. Basically, you do everything you would do if you were
hanging out with them in real life. Social networking is just a great big party. That’s part
number one.”
I doodled an image to make sure it was clear in my mind. I also made a note to watch how
Perry and everyone else in my Dream 100 was posting and making conversations on each
social network so I could start modeling these “party” interactions.
Figure 8.4: The goal of social networking is to invite people back to your home and, from there, to
introduce them into your funnels.
“The second part of the process is how I use my personal profile on each social platform,”
Perry continued. “My personal profile is my house, it’s my home, it’s where I live. It has most
of my thoughts, my information, and stuff that is interesting to me. I archive pictures, videos,
fun stuff I’ve done with friends, and stuff like that. When people come into my house, they
know what I’m about. They can see the things that I like to talk about.”
“Now, this is how it works. When I go into groups and start networking, or I see someone
else’s posts in my feed, I go and participate in the conversations and make friends. As they see
me consistently show up, they will want to drop by my house and see what I’m all about. Give
them some free stuff like chips and dip (free content) to get them to come to your house. Then
when they’re at my house, that’s where I invite them to take action with me: register for my
webinar, attend my next event, read my new book, or join my newsletter list. That’s how I
invite people from my house into my funnels. Those selling conversations don’t have a place
on social media, but they do at your house. You can direct people into your funnels from the
posts you make on your own personal profile. If you provide value on the social platforms,
people will come running to your house because they want more of you, and from there, they
will flow into your funnels.”
This was the big “aha” that I needed! Social wasn’t about selling. It was about making
friends. I changed my tactics, deleted all my posts that were trying to sell my products, and
started serving, interacting, being entertaining, and having fun with my followers. All the
friends, fans, and followers that came afterward were a direct by-product of me being the life
of the party.
I wanted to give you this context before we discussed any of the specific networks, because
this is how we “work our way in.” It’s the core concept that you have to master if you want to
have success with social media, no matter which platform you are focusing on. Those who just
spam their message to their followers will always think that social media doesn’t work. Even if
they do get some short-term results, they won’t last. On the other hand, those who play the
longer game and plant seeds with their followers will end up with a constant stream of traffic
flooding into their funnels.
PRODUCER, NOT CONSUMER
I want to give you one quick warning because I know that some reading this are probably
already thinking, Russell, I already spend way too much time on social media right now. If I’m
going to become the life of the party, my whole life is going to be wasted on social media.
I’ll start by saying that yes, you are currently spending way too much time on social media. I
don’t care who you are; you are probably already spending way too much time consuming
social media. If you’re spending more than 10 minutes a day consuming social media, then you
are wasting your time. The keyword here is “consuming.”
As of today, you are no longer a consumer of social media. You are a producer of social


--- PAGINA 86 ---

media. There is a big difference. Consuming social media doesn’t serve you or the audience
you’ve been called to serve. Producing social media does serve them.
The first step in this process is to do a social media reset. That means unfriending and
unfollowing almost everyone on every platform that you’ll be using to generate traffic. That
way, you won’t be distracted by the nonsense that everyone around you is posting. From here
on out, you’ll use social media as a business tool, not a social tool. After you unfriend
everyone, I suggest only following your Dream 100 on each platform. That way, when you log
in to any of the platforms, you’ll be able to quickly get a glimpse of what they’re posting and
get ideas for things that are working well that you can model. Also, you will be able to start
digging your well with these people by commenting on their posts and messaging them
through direct messages.
Now that your social feed has been cleaned up, go and look for the social parties that have
the most people engaged in them. You wouldn’t go to a party that only has a few dozen people;
instead you would look for the largest parties in town where you can get the most exposure
for your efforts. Depending on the platform, you’ll be looking for the largest groups, podcasts,
blogs, videos, and Fan Pages that you can go to and become the life of the party. As you
participate in these groups and serve their audiences, the people will naturally start coming
back to your home.
In the following secrets, I’ll be giving you a specific publishing plan for each network that
will show you how to effectively be a producer of social media in a way that won’t consume
your whole life. I want to bring up the concept of producer versus consumer now so you will
be able to look at everything that happens in the next few chapters through this lens. This
way, you can focus on serving your audience, not wasting your precious time.
Next we will cover how to fill your funnels with paid ads, and then we will move into the two
largest social networks at the moment: Instagram and Facebook. I’ll discuss how to find your
Dream 100 on both platforms, understand the platforms’ strategies, create your publishing
plan, grow your followings and fill your funnels.


--- PAGINA 87 ---

SECRET #9
FILL YOUR FUNNEL WITH PAID ADS
(Buying Your Way In)
Now that you’ve seen the overarching strategy for “working your way in” and getting free
organic traffic, I now want to lay out the strategy for how to fill your funnel with paid ads.
After you have an understanding of these two core principles, then we’ll dive into each traffic
platform (Instagram, Facebook, Google, and YouTube) and show you how to use both of these
strategies to find your dream customers and bring them into your funnels.
As you can probably tell, I spend the majority of my personal time working with my Dream
100, building and communicating with my lists, and publishing content to build fans and
followers. In fact, during the first 10 years of my companies, we didn’t run any paid ads. We
paid affiliates to promote our products and used a lot of the growth hacks that you’ll learn
about in Section Three, but we never actually paid for an ad.
We were able to drive a lot of traffic with these methods, but there was never much
consistency. We would set up a big promotion, drive a lot of traffic, and make a bunch of sales.
But after the promotion was over, our traffic would slowly dry up, and we’d have to go back to
the drawing board and create the next new offer to promote. It was a traffic roller coaster that
lasted for years, until one day I decided I wanted off.
I came into the office and told our small team that we had to figure out paid advertising so
we could get off the traffic roller coaster and get more consistency in our marketing. I asked if
anyone was interested in diving in and mastering Facebook and Google, and one person raised
his hand and said, “Yes!”
His name is John Parkes, and he started the first division of our company focusing on paid
ads. Initially, it was just him for a few years, and after he figured out the model that worked
for each network, he built a team that has been the backbone for the growth of ClickFunnels
to where it is today.
Adding paid ads into the strategies you’ve been learning about is like adding lighter fluid to
a pile of charcoal. You will get results faster on any funnel you want to promote and be able to
more predictably control sales over the long-term.
Throughout this chapter, I’ll be quoting John in a few sections, but it should be noted that
everything I’m showing you here came from the methodologies he pioneered within our
company. As always, we’ll be staying away from the exact tactics that often change and focus
instead on the overarching strategies that will help you to build out your paid traffic plan.
One thing John told me as we were mapping out this chapter was: “While it’s true that each
advertising network has little intricacies and nuances that can take a while to get used to, and
there are definitely tips and tricks that can incrementally improve your performance, the good
news is that the strategy of advertising on these networks is the same. The specifics of the
platforms can be learned with online tutorials, or they can be hired out, but the strategy needs
to be understood by you (the entrepreneur) in order to succeed.”
WHAT IS MY ADVERTISING BUDGET?
The number-one question I get from people every time I start talking about paid ads is always
related to how much money they’ll need to budget to actually run ads. I always smile and tell
them that if they have been following my advice so far and they’ve created a break-even
funnel, then every dollar that they spend in ads comes back to them immediately. If they have
a funnel that is break even or profitable, then they don’t have an advertising budget. Their
goal is to spend as much money profitably as possible because each dollar they spend turns
into more dollars.
Let me tell you a quick story to illustrate how this works. Recently we launched a new front-
end funnel at LeadFunnels.com. It was a $7 report that had a $37 order form bump and a
$100 “onetime offer” or OTO. After the funnel was live, we wanted to test it to make sure it
was working, that there were no technical issues, and that it actually was going to be
profitable. So we created an initial “advertising budget” of $100. We started running Facebook


--- PAGINA 88 ---

Ads, and within about a day, the $100 was spent.
We then looked at the sales to see if we had made at least $100. From our first ad spend, we
ended up getting about 100 clicks, selling 7 reports ($7 x 7 = $49), two people bought the
order form bump ($37 x 2 = $74), and one person bought the $100 OTO. The total sales
equaled $223. After we subtracted our $100 ad cost, we had made $123!
As you can see, this funnel no longer has an advertising budget. We’ll keep running ads for
as long as it stays profitable. If, for some reason, we lost money on this test, we would turn off
the ads, rework the funnel, and then test again with another $100.
I never like putting very much of my money at risk at any given time, so with each new
funnel, as soon as it’s live, we set up a few ads, give it a small test budget, and see what
happens. The funnels that flop are sent back to the drawing board to get reworked, and the
funnels that work are scaled to see how much money we can profitably spend.
PROSPECTING ADS VS. RETARGETING ADS
Before we start talking about ads, I need to take a minute to explain the difference between
“prospecting” ads vs. “retargeting” ads. Once you understand the difference between them
and how they work together, we’ll dive deep into how to use each of them together.
Figure 9.1: To get your best results for paid ads, don’t stop with prospecting ads. Continue with
retargeting ads to give your warmer audience another opportunity to buy.
John explained, “Prospecting ads are the act of reaching out into the networks to find cold
traffic or people who aren’t familiar with you or your offers and hook them long enough to get
their attention. After we’ve gotten their attention and gotten them to engage with us (engage
could mean they watched, liked, or commented on an ad), then we move them from the
‘prospecting’ pool into the ‘retargeting’ buckets. We then advertise to these people differently
and work to warm them up and then get them into our value ladder.”
John continued, “Let me give you an example of how these work together. Let’s say you have
a book about effective parenting that you’d like to sell. A prospecting ad would be one that
you run to a specific group of newlyweds who are likely new parents (or soon to be),
introducing them to concepts from your book. As people engage with those ads, you’ll be able
to see which people are interested in what you have to say. A small percentage of those people
may go and buy your book immediately, but the majority of them won’t buy right then. It’s
those people who have engaged, but not purchased, who you would put into the retargeting
buckets. Once they’re in those buckets, we can warm them up, test other hooks, tell other
stories, and remind them of the great offer we’ve made them in order to persuade them to
click through and go into your funnel.”
STEP #1: CREATE LOTS OF PROSPECTING ADS TO “HOOK” YOUR DREAM CUSTOMERS
When we first started using paid advertising, we made the mistake of thinking that we needed
to create a great ad, and if we got the ad right, it would bring in thousands of our dream
customers. I would spend a ton of time trying to create the perfect hook, and then once we
threw it out into the ad networks, half the time it would fail. Other times it would work, but
only for a little while. It was frustrating because I had set my expectations wrong. After a few
months, we ended up with a few dozen ads that were working, and then I shifted my focus to
other things.


--- PAGINA 89 ---

John would get frustrated with me and ask me to take more pictures or make more videos
that he could run as ads. I did a few every now and then, but for the most part I just assumed
that paid ads didn’t work as well as I had hoped.
A few months later, I called up my friend Dean Graziosi and we started sharing notes on
what we were doing to sell our books and our coaching programs online. I had known who
Dean was since I was a teenager; after all, I used to watch him on late night infomercials first
selling his Motor Millions product and later selling tons of different books on real estate. I was
probably the only kid my age who would sit up late at night and watch Dean while taking
notes in my notebook about how he was pitching. I know, I know, I’m such a nerd, but it was
amazing to see how good he was!
As I started to grow my first company, Dean was one of the first people on my Dream 100
list. I still remember that awkward moment when we first met; I explained to him that when I
was a teenager, I used to watch his infomercials and study how he sold. He laughed, and we’ve
grown a mutual admiration for each other as we’ve gotten to know each other better. I have
become so grateful for times when we had a chance to just brainstorm on what was working at
the moment.
Once when I was speaking to Dean on the phone, I started to brag, “We’re selling about
1,200 copies of our book each week through paid ads right now . . .” But then I realized I
didn’t know how many books he himself was selling. “How about you guys?”
“We’re at about 5,000 a week right now and have been holding steady at that number for
the past few months,” he replied.
Whoa, that’s more than four times what we’re selling, I thought.
Still talking to Dean on the phone, I shot a text to John to see what we were doing wrong,
and if he could tell if Dean was really selling that many. A few minutes later I got a message
back from John: “Five thousand?! I see his ads everywhere, but there’s no way they’re buying
more ads than us. Ask him what he’s doing to sell that many.”
Dean and I talked for a while longer, but I still couldn’t identify how he was getting four
times the sales volume that we were. At the end of our call, we decided that it was best for me
to fly out to spend a day with Dean and his team. That way, I could show them some of the cool
funnel stuff we were doing, and they’d show us deep behind the scenes of what they were
doing.
A few weeks later my team and I were in a plane, flying to Arizona, excited to see if we could
figure out how to multiply our book sales four times over. Once both of our teams were
gathered around a conference table, we showed them our best stuff, and then they opened up
and let us look into their ad accounts.
At first, it was hard to find the needle in the haystack. Their ads looked similar to ours, and
the targeting looked similar too. It seemed we had the same strategy . . . And then we saw it.
Something we almost overlooked and couldn’t have known at the time looking from the
outside in. Dean and his team were running four times more creative (ads) than us.
“How many ads are you guys running?” I asked.
“Lots,” Dean said. “They have me make a few new ads each day.”
“Each day?”
“Yeah. Through my day, I carry my book with me, and every time I find a cool spot, I pull out
my phone and make a new ad. Here is one at my daughter’s softball game. Here is another at
my house. This one is at the airport, and this one is when I went out to dinner.”
I couldn’t believe this was the big secret. More creative. More hooks. More ads. When
you’re thinking about prospecting ads, you’re looking at a huge ocean of people—all who need
your product or service but all who have a different reason why. If you try to create just one
hook, it may last for a while and grab the people who are looking for that hook, but it will dry
up very fast. You’ve got to become prolific at creating ads. The phone in your pocket will
become your ad-making, creative-generating, hook-developing machine. Everywhere you go,
you should be looking for opportunities to record a pitch for your offers that you can then turn
into ads. After leaving Dean’s office that day, we learned the gold nugget we needed to take
our advertising and our company to the next level. My guess is that if you’re reading this
book, you probably saw one or more of the hundreds of creatives I made with my phone
selling this book and the entire Secrets trilogy. You’ve probably seen the same thing with me
selling ClickFunnels, our coaching, and just about everything else that I’m part of. The more
creative you can put into the prospecting ocean, the more fish (dream customers) you’re going
to be able to pull out.
Targeting for Prospecting Ads


--- PAGINA 90 ---

The next step after you have made your creative is to figure out who to show it to. John
explains:
Dream 100: The best place to start is your Dream 100 list for that platform. When
you’re running ads on Facebook and Instagram, you can target people who have an
interest in a certain thought leader, brand, or celebrity. You’ll find many (but probably not
all) of your Dream 100’s followers targetable this way in the Ads Manager. For YouTube,
you can specify that you’d like your ads to show in front of your Dream 100’s videos both
individually or their channel as a whole.
Ideal customer avatar: Second on your targeting list is your ideal customer avatar.
Think about their interests, their age, their career, their home life, and anything else you
can identify. Most of these ad platforms will allow you to get pretty specific on who you
show your ads to.
Overlapping sections of multiple audiences: Some ad networks let you get more
specific in targeting your audiences by layering on multiple criteria and then just
targeting the overlapping sections. Think of three overlapping circles, each representing
one of the audiences above and then imagine a center area where they all overlap. This
center area represents the sweet spot where your dream customer is most likely to be. An
example of this would be to not just target Tony Robbins’s followers in one campaign,
business owners in another, and women between the ages of 35–55 in a third campaign,
but instead to have one campaign that requires the viewers be in all three of those
categories in order to be shown your ad. Being smart with your audiences and layering
them can really help bring your costs down and improve your results.
Figure 9.2: When you target overlapping sections of people, meaning you layer your
audiences and only target those who have multiple things in common, you can bring down
your ad costs and get better results.
Algorithms: The last thing, and honestly where the networks are working toward, is for
you to rely on the algorithms to do a lot of the legwork for you. You see, once you have a
few hundred people engaging with your posts, clicking through to your funnels, and
becoming leads and buyers, you’ve generated a pool of data. You’ve begun to prove
exactly who it is that is responding to your advertising efforts.
The platform algorithms can work with that data and actually start lending a hand in
your targeting efforts. In Google and YouTube, they’re called Similar Audiences, and in
Facebook and Instagram, they’re called Lookalike Audiences. In both cases, you decide
which bucket to use as the source, the algorithm then looks deep into who those people
are, and then matches up others in your specified geographical range who are most
similar to them (and thus more likely to care about what you have to offer).
80/20 Rule for Prospecting
One thing to note when running prospecting ads is that these types of ads are the most
expensive, but they are vital for two reasons. First, it’s through prospecting that you find out


--- PAGINA 91 ---

who is actually responding to your ads so your targeting becomes more on point (which brings
your costs down). Second, it’s prospecting that fills your retargeting buckets. If you stop
prospecting, you’ll soon find yourself with no one to retarget to. Here is a word of warning
from John before you start running your first prospecting ads:
I’ve been coaching small business owners and entrepreneurs for many years on their
paid traffic. One thing I consistently come up against is a business owner who thinks it’s
too expensive to make sales using ads. If they’re too hasty, they’ll prematurely turn their
advertising campaigns off. I’ve found, though, that if they understand how the 80/20 rule
applies to ads, they’ll better know what to expect.
When you put up your first ads, they’re almost always going to a colder audience, a
group of people who don’t know you and don’t know what you have to offer. It will always
be more expensive and less efficient to advertise to this crowd, but when you’re getting
started, you have no other choice. Results will come slower with these prospecting efforts
and costs to get a lead or a sale will be much higher (sometimes even so high that you’re
losing money to begin with). In fact, don’t be surprised if you spend 80 percent of your
advertising budget in this category and it only generates 20 percent of your results.
But if you hold strong, there is a light at the end of this tunnel. You see, while one
purpose of the prospecting campaigns is to generate some leads and sales upfront, the
bigger purpose is to fill all your retargeting audiences (which include your social
followings and lists). As people begin to engage with your ads, they may subscribe and
follow you (which you don’t have control over) as well as be added to specific retargeting
audiences (which you do have control over). It’s from these new followers and retargeting
audiences that you’ll often see 80 percent of your results while only using 20 percent of
your budget. As you use both of these strategies in tandem, you can make the sales you
want at the cost you want and grow your business effectively.
STEP #2: USE A RETARGETING FUNNEL TO CREATE CUSTOMERS
As you’ve been spending money on prospecting ads to find your dream customers, the cream
off the top has probably already come and purchased your products. However, there are so
many people who would likely buy if they just had a little extra nudge. In Secret #6, we talked
about the power of following up with your prospects through follow-up funnels using their
email address. But what about all of the people who watch your videos or come to your funnel
but don’t give you their email addresses? How do you follow up with all of them? The answer
is through retargeting ads.
Here’s an example from John to show you how this works.
Let’s say you spend $2,000 on ads.
From that, you get 100,000 people to actually see your ad.
The ad performed well and 4% of these people engage with the ad (4,000 people).
And 2% of the original 100,000 click the link in the ad and go to your funnel (2,000
clicks).
Of these people, 30% of them give you their email address (600 leads).
And 10% become buyers (60 buyers).


--- PAGINA 92 ---

Figure 9.3: Through retargeting, you can reach those who didn’t buy when they first saw your ad.
That leaves 3,940 people who engaged with your ad but didn’t become a lead or a buyer.
While you’ll never be able to capture everyone’s attention, you can in fact reach a lot more.
How? This is where retargeting comes in.
Since your efforts to reach people only resulted in a tiny fraction buying, you need specific
campaigns in place to reach back out to those who were a good fit but just didn’t take action
(or enough action) for whatever reason. In order to do this properly, you need to build custom
audiences. There are three specific audiences that are essential to a high-performance
retargeting plan. Each is based on how far viewers got along the customer journey.
Audience #1—Engaged: The first audience you’ll want to build is an audience based on
viewers having engaged with you. Did they watch your YouTube videos this week? Did they
watch one of your prospecting ads and make a comment recently? These people interacted
with your post but never left the platform to pursue your offer. While they have made a minor
commitment to you, it’s nothing serious. These people are worth some continued ad dollars
but not too much or for too long. I tend to run an ad to this audience for up to five days. If they
haven’t visited my landing page by that point, I let them fall out of the audience and return to
the prospecting pools from whence they came. Maybe I’ll hook them again in the future and
they’ll pop back into my retargeting bucket, or maybe I’ll never see them again.
Audience #2—Landed: The second audience you’ll want to build is made up of the people
who clicked through and landed on your page. These people took a bigger commitment, left
the platform, and visited your sales funnel. While they trusted you with their curiosity and
visited your page, they didn’t take any further action by opting in or purchasing. I tend to run
an ad to this audience for up to seven days trying to get them to come back and take me up on
my lead magnet. Again, if they don’t opt in or buy within seven days, I just let them fall out of
this audience.
Audience #3—Owned: The third type of audience you’ll want to have is made up of those
who did take your lead magnet and those who purchased. These people have made a large
commitment and have entrusted you with email addresses and credit card numbers in
exchange for your goods. This is the traffic that you now own, and it becomes very useful and
lucrative in many different ways. Not only are they now on your follow-up funnel sequences,
but they’re also prime candidates for seeing ads for your next offer or an offer one step up the
value ladder.


--- PAGINA 93 ---

Figure 9.4: The three types of audiences to include in your retargeting ad campaign include:
engaged audience, landed audience, and owned audience.
Unlike prospecting ads where I’m making new creative as often as possible, with your
retargeting campaigns, you’re focusing on creating them once and you will never touch them
again. It’s similar to a Soap Opera Sequence inside of a follow-up funnel that you write once,
and it lasts forever. As we move people through the retargeting buckets, we use the same
three closes you learned about earlier: starting with emotion, then moving to logic, and ending
with fear (urgency/scarcity). That is how we pull people into action throughout each
retargeting campaign.
In order to implement retargeting, you have to place a pixel (a block of tracking code) on
your sales funnel. This is a simple copy/paste procedure that allows the network to see how
far along the customer journey your viewer got. This is important for two reasons. First, it
provides feedback for you on what’s working and what’s not (what’s converting these
prospects into traffic that you own and what isn’t) so you can pivot in either your targeting or
your messaging. It also provides feedback for the algorithm to learn and optimize advertising
efforts along with you. Second, the pixel is what allows us to put viewers into the different
audience categories, so we’ll know when to put specific ads in front of them.
To summarize, effective retargeting has at least three audiences (engaged, landed, and
owned), and the end goals should be based on the type of audience the ad is targeted to.
Engaged → Sell the click: Tell the network you want to collect a custom audience of
everyone who has interacted with your posts in the past five days. To this audience, you
want to show an ad with a hook and story that sells the click.
Landed → Sell the opt-in or purchase: Tell the network you want to collect a custom
audience of everyone who has clicked through to your landing page in the past seven
days. To this audience, you want to show an ad with a hook and story that sells the opt-in
or purchase.
Owned → Sell the next step: Tell the network you want to collect a custom audience of
everyone who has converted into a lead and/or sale. To this audience, you want to either
offer another front-end product or walk them up the next step on your value ladder.
To understand this better, think of people as moving on certain conveyor belts. While they’re
on a specific conveyor belt, they’re shown the ad appropriate to them; you’re hoping they take
the hook and find themselves in a new audience on the subsequent conveyor belt. If they don’t
take the hook, they move off that particular belt and find themselves back in your prospecting
pool awaiting the next hook that intrigues them.
The lowest hanging fruit in the advertising world is running ads to your subscribers,
followers, and ever-growing lists that you own. And while only a third of the emails you send
may get opened, you can always run ads to your lists, often reaching those who didn’t
originally open the emails and greatly increasing your overall conversions from these lists.
What I’ve outlined here is a very effective strategy that will work on Google, YouTube,
Instagram, and Facebook as well as other ad platforms. There are many different tactics and
little things you can do to increase your ads’ effectiveness, but by following the strategy
outlined here, you can always be sure that you’re hitting the right people at the right time
with the right message.


--- PAGINA 94 ---

SECRET #10
INSTAGRAM TRAFFIC SECRETS
Over the past few years, one of my favorite social platforms to spend my personal time on has
been Instagram. One of its core features, Instagram Stories, has become my favorite way to
document my daily journey. Personally, I believe that it’s the most powerful of all social tools to
build a relationship between you (the Attractive Character) and your audience. A lot of the
strategy I learned originally when I set up my account was from my friend and amazing
entrepreneur Jenna Kutcher. In this chapter, with Jenna’s permission, I’ll share many of the
concepts we learned from her. I’m so grateful to her for allowing me to share them with you.
STEP #1: UNDERSTAND THE HISTORY AND THE GOAL
Created by Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger in San Francisco, Instagram launched on October
6, 2010.21 Its fast-paced growth was unheard of: 100,000 members in the first week, 1 million
members in the first two months, and 10 million members in the first year.22 And in June 2019,
it passed over a billion members!23
In 2012, Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion in cash and stocks.24 While that story is
fascinating, I think the more exciting story occurred in 2013, when Mark Zuckerberg offered
to buy Snapchat for $3 billion.25 After Snapchat’s founder said no, Facebook decided that
instead of buying them, they would just try to beat Snapchat at their own game. Over the next
few years, they added all of Snapchat’s core features into Instagram. Then in August 2016,
they threw the death punch: they replaced Snapchat’s signature feature by launching
Instagram Stories. Soon Snapchat’s stocks plummeted, users migrated in droves from
Snapchat to Instagram, and, almost overnight, Instagram became the second largest social
networking site in the world.
Mark Zuckerberg’s goal when acquiring Instagram and ripping off Snapchat’s features was
to find more places to leverage attention and place ads where you are spending your time:
looking at your feed, exploring various things, and watching other people’s stories.
If you are “working your way in,” then you win this game by:
Attracting followers
Creating content that engages them and keeps them coming back to the platform for
more
As you do that, you can use that attention to get free, organic traffic into your funnels.
If you are “buying your way in,” you win by showing your ads to your Dream 100’s followers
and pushing them into your funnels. As with all platforms, I believe we should be playing both
sides: working our way in and buying our way in.
STEP #2: FIND YOUR DREAM 100 ON THIS PLATFORM
The first step, as you’ll soon see with every platform, is to identify the Dream 100 that have
already congregated your dream customers on the platform you are starting on. Follow each
of them and set up a plan to spend a few minutes each day viewing all their Stories, posts, and
ads. This will help you to identify the patterns that are making these people successful.
Each day, I spend three to five minutes viewing my Dream 100’s posts looking for:
What pictures “hook” me and make me want to read the caption
Which captions make me want to take an action
At the same time, I:
Like the posts from my Dream 100
Comment on at least 10 of my Dream 100’s posts each day (digging my well)


--- PAGINA 95 ---

I also spend five minutes watching Instagram Stories from my Dream 100:
Looking for cool ideas on ways they’re engaging people
Checking out where their swipe-ups push me to
Messaging (DM’ing) on at least 10 of their videos (digging my well)
Looking for the swipe-up ads that are shown to me and funnel hacking them (swiping up
on them)
Remember, you’re now a producer of social media, not a consumer. Don’t get caught in the
trap of following tons of interesting people who will distract you and waste your time. Follow
only those people who are already successfully serving the market that you want to serve, so
you can understand what message they’re sharing. Then you can figure out your unique
angles inside of that ecosystem and unfriend or unfollow everyone else.
STEP #3: IDENTIFY THE PUBLISHING STRATEGY AND CREATE YOUR PUBLISHING PLAN
There are many ways to publish content on Instagram, and each section of the platform has a
different strategy for how to publish and how to monetize. To make it simpler, I’ll break down
each of the core sections in Instagram and explain the strategy for how you can use each one.
Here are the core areas of the platform we’ll be focusing on.
The first I call “content hooks,” where you are producing images and videos in a way to grab
your dream customers and turn them into your followers. We rarely, if ever, actually sell
anything in this content; we only focus on getting people to like, comment, and follow. We do
this in two sections in the app:
Instagram profile (your gallery)
Instagram TV (your produced video content)
The second section of the app is your home. This is where you’re able to direct people into
your funnels and actually sell. I’ll show you the strategies behind how we sell in this chapter,
but for now understand that the areas that you’ll be able to sell your products and services
are:
Instagram Stories (your reality show)
Instagram Live (your live show)
Again, I want to mention that these platforms, their features, and the strategies for them are
always evolving, so view this chapter as a baseline, and watch your Dream 100 closely so you
can model and innovate on any and all algorithm changes as they come.


--- PAGINA 96 ---

Figure 10.1: On Instagram, you have two different ways to interact with the platform: by viewing
other people’s content or by posting your own content.
My biggest fear in telling people to model their Dream 100 is that they’ll think it means they
should “copy” their Dream 100. Again, copying is not the goal; on the contrary, copying is
illegal and unethical. Modeling is watching what others in your market are doing so you can
get ideas on what you can create. To have success on Instagram or on any platform, you have
to be you. Your brand and your personality are the keys to getting people to follow and engage
with you. The differences you bring into the ecosystem that you serve is the secret that will
create your true fans.
Jenna Kutcher said once, “A brand is the image and personality the business applies to its
offers.” The Attractive Character is the voice of your company, and what you’re doing on social
media is creating the image and personality that can connect with people and lead them into
your funnels and to your offers.
The first step, then, when setting up Instagram is to quickly communicate in your bio who
you are as the Attractive Character. When people find you on Instagram, the first thing they’ll
do is check out your bio. You only have 150 characters to make your first impression and get
them to click on the “Follow” button. You also get one link that you can use to direct people
back into one of your funnels (converting them from traffic that you’ve earned into traffic that
you own). There are a lot of thoughts and beliefs on what you can or should write in your bio,
but I suggest looking at your Dream 100’s bios, seeing what’s working, choosing what you
like, and modeling them to create your own unique bio.
Instagram Profile Strategy (Your Gallery)
Your Instagram profile is the core foundation of your Instagram strategy. I’ll focus on this first
section of the platform because it is the key to increasing your followers and will fuel your
Instagram Stories with their powerful swipe-ups, Instagram Lives, IGTV, and more.
The hook (your pictures): After someone looks at your bio, the next thing they’ll see is a
grid of all the pictures and videos that you’ve posted. Each picture is a hook that can
potentially grab someone who is scrolling on Instagram and pull them into your funnels.
People are automatically able to see all the pictures on your profile, and if you post them
correctly, they’ll also be able to see them inside of their own news feed.
When I started using Instagram, I had no clue what types of pictures I should post. If you
scroll back on my profile to the very first pictures, you’ll probably get a good laugh seeing all
the random stuff I posted. As a result, I had low engagement because I had no idea what I was
doing.
Shortly afterward, I heard Jenna Kutcher give a presentation on her “JK5 Method”
framework. I started using it a few years ago, and I still use it to this day because it makes
posting to my profile simple and fun. Using the JK5 Method will help you to create connection
beyond just what you’re selling, and to do that, you will need to post more than just your
“work.”
To implement the JK5 Method, you first need to create five main categories of things you’re
passionate about. This will help to give you a recognizable brand, and as you post images,
you’ll simply rotate through these categories so your followers get a good understanding of
who you are beyond what you sell.
For Jenna, her five categories are marriage, body positivity, photography, fashion, and travel.
If you scroll through her profile, you’ll notice that she cycles through these categories. As I
was creating my categories, I thought about the things most important to me that I wanted to
share with the world. The categories I came up with for my brand were family, funnels, faith,
entrepreneurship, and personal development.
Jenna explained why the JK5 Method helps to grow your brand and increase your audience:
When you adopt this method, you’ll not only create a versatile, well-rounded, and
connected brand, but you’ll also create an interesting feed that earns you the ability to
sell. No two categories live next to each other in the grid, giving you extra visual element,
but also giving people a way to find a way to connect with you, even if they currently
aren’t on the market for what you’re selling. Oftentimes someone will follow you for just
ONE of the categories while they get to know you, like you, and trust you, priming them to
become a paying client in the future.
It’s important we talk about the overall vibe of your “grid.” Essentially, your grid is what
users see when they scroll through to see multiple images all lined up in rows of three. It’s


--- PAGINA 97 ---

easy to get obsessive about your overall grid aesthetic but what I love about the JK5 is
that it gives people an overarching view of your brand when they click to see your full
profile. If you truly follow the five-category rotation, viewers will see more than just what
you sell but be able to also see if they can connect to your account enough to FOLLOW
you. When someone lands on your page, they have about 10 seconds to make a decision on
whether or not they want to follow you, and so we want this overall grid to create
connection right off the bat!
Figure 10.2: Because I simply rotate between my JK5 categories when I post, my followers can
clearly see what I care about: family, funnels, faith, entrepreneurship, and personal development.
When you’re posting on your profile, never post in real time; your posts should be thought
out and strategic. (Real time posting is for Instagram Stories.) To curate photos for your
profile, most phones will allow you to set up albums for your pictures. I suggest creating a
new album for each of the five categories in your JK5. Then look back through your camera
roll and move all the existing pictures you’ve taken in the past into these albums. Chances are
this exercise alone will give you a few months’ worth of the perfect images that you could start
using today.
Moving forward, when you take new pictures with your phone, always add them into these
albums. Each day, as you’re looking for a new picture to post, go into that album on your
phone and quickly grab the perfect picture. On top of pictures, Instagram also allows you to
post videos on your profile that are under 60 seconds, so as you capture short videos that fit
into your JK5, save them in your albums as well.
Before posting any picture or video, though, I highly recommend using Jenna’s “ABCDQ
Test” to see if it is “on brand” and therefore worthy for your profile. Here is the test:
Aesthetic: Does it visually show something that fits the personality of my brand?
Brand: Is it aligned with my dream client or something they will engage with?
Consistent: Is it consistent in terms of color or quality to fit within my overall feed?


--- PAGINA 98 ---

Diversity: Is this something different than my last post? Does it create recognition
beyond what I sell?
Quality: Is this up to the quality I want my clients/followers to expect? If this stood alone,
would it fit my brand?
The story (captions): After you run it through the ABCDQ Test and you’re ready to post the
image, you need to think about arguably the most important question of all: “What am I going
to say about this picture?” The picture is the hook that brings people in and grabs their
attention, but the caption tells your story and tries to engage the reader before you make your
offer or CTA.
Goal of Post. Each post you make should have one goal. As I post any picture and write its
caption, the first thing I do is decide if the hook is meant to inspire, educate, or entertain:
Inspire: It compels others to feel inspired and capable of big things.
Educate: It teaches or educates your followers on a subject.
Entertain: It provides entertainment for your followers.
Type of Caption. After I decide the goal of the post, I try to figure out the type of caption to
post. According to Jenna, the three most common types of captions and how to use them in
business are:
Tell a story:
The posts that do the best on Instagram have one thing in common: they invite you into
the story and make you feel a part of the moment, as if you’re experiencing it beyond the
screen. I often pay attention to the little things or thoughts that happen in my days and
turn those into short Stories I tell through captions. I’m not talking “once upon a time”–
type stories but relatable life experiences that others can connect with.
Ask a question:
Having an audience (whether it’s 10 people or 1,000 people) gives you access to people
that can help you create the perfect offer! When you’re not sure what to post, ask a
question. People love to feel heard and be able to share their opinions. At least once a
week I love to ask a question. Often, it’s as simple as: “What is the best book you’ve read
recently?” or as complex as: “Tell me what you’re struggling with when it comes to
Instagram so I can help you!” Questions can be directly related to your offer or just
another way to connect with your audience. Plus, questions invite engagement onto your
feed!
Make a list:
You can have a lot of fun with captions by sharing a short list! Some examples include:
three things people might not know about you, five facts about your business, three ways
to use your products, or the seven best books you’ve ever read. Lists are a fun way to
deliver a caption that is easy to read or interesting; they can also further connect you to
your followers in unexpected ways beyond the traditional brand stories you tell! We love
sharing lists of our favorite things or writing an “introduction”-type post where we share
more about us. After all, new people find and follow our account each week.
Hashtags. So what is a hashtag, and why do you need it? If you think of Instagram as a huge
filing cabinet, then the hashtags are the filing folders. When someone searches a hashtag,
Instagram finds all the images that use that same hashtag and gives you a gallery of only
those images. For example, if I post a picture with the hashtag #potatoguns and someone
searches for that hashtag, the picture I post will show up in the #potatoguns gallery. If they
follow that hashtag (because they love potato guns), any new picture I post with that hashtag
could show up in their news feed!
You can use up to 30 hashtags with each post to help your images, or hooks, show up in the
searches and feeds of your dream customers. Hashtags are the equivalent of keywords in
search engines. Sometimes, you can put your hashtags in your actual caption (we call these
overt hashtags) where your audience will see them, but typically most of your hashtags will be
posted in the first comment after you post your image (we call these covert keywords).


--- PAGINA 99 ---

Figure 10.3: To increase our reach, we place a few overt keywords in our post and the majority of
our covert keywords in the first comment.
There are many online research tools that can help you to figure out the best hashtags for
your posts, and I do recommend using them, but the easiest way to research what hashtags
you may want to use is to go back to your Dream 100. They’re already serving your dream
clients, so what hashtags are they using to get in front of them? Look at their hashtags each
day as you’re doing your research and keep a list of the ones that will work for you too.
The offer (your call to action): The last step in creating your post is your CTA. Every single
post needs a CTA, and it can vary from being a very small ask to being a big CTA. Examples of
small asks include: “Double tap,” “Hit the ‘like’ button,” “Post an emoji,” or “Comment below.”
Examples of bigger calls to action include: “Share this post,” “Tag 3 friends,” “Click the link in
my bio,” or “Sign up for ____.”
Calls to action are important for a lot of reasons. Ultimately, they help you get people off
Instagram and onto your lists, but, maybe even more importantly, they help the algorithms
know if people like what you’re posting. If your audience comments, likes, and engages with
what you post, the algorithms will assume you’re creating content that people want and they’ll
reward you by giving you more exposure. When people comment, you should be responding to
their comments. This will get them more likely to comment in the future, and it gives other
people extra motivation to comment as well.
Now, let’s quickly recap the basic process to follow when making posts on your Instagram
profile:
Follow the JK5 Method and create five main categories of things you’re passionate about.
Each day, post two pictures on your profile (rotate through your JK5 categories).
Decide the goal of each post: Inspire, Educate, or Entertain.
Decide the type of caption to use: Story, Ask a Question, or Make a List.
Choose the hashtags that will make your post show up for your dream customer.
Add a CTA to get your audience to engage with you.
If you need more examples on how to do this, then look no further than your Dream 100. If
they’re successful, you’ll see this pattern within their posts, and you can model it for your own
posts as well.
Instagram TV Strategy (Your Produced Video Content)
Instagram TV was originally created to be a competitor of YouTube. Most people used
Instagram as an app that you scrolled through during your in-between moments, and they
wanted to create something that would keep you in the app for longer stretches of time.


--- PAGINA 100 ---

Figure 10.4: IGTV episodes are longer videos that usually answer a question or dive more deeply
into a topic.
Part of our consistent publishing plan is to test out hooks and test our material. As I’m
posting pictures and publishing Stories, I’m looking to see what people respond to. What
questions do they keep asking me? What subjects and topics are interesting? When they see
behind the scenes of my life, what parts do they want to understand more?
After identifying their interests, I’ll create a more produced piece of content that answers
these questions or expounds on certain subjects. These videos become episodes on Instagram
TV. Typically, anything over 60 seconds is made into an IGTV post, and they can be up to 60
minutes long. In our market, we found that the sweet spot for video length is three to five
minutes, so we’ll spend that time answering a question or diving more deeply into a topic.
These videos become our IGTV episodes.
The episode will show up to your fans and followers just like a normal picture or video that
you post on your profile would. After people watch the first 60 seconds, Instagram will ask if
they want to continue watching the rest of the video inside IGTV, making it vital that the first
60 seconds hook them into watching the full video or you’ll lose people before they see your
full message. Watch the IGTV’s from your Dream 100 and see what types of videos they are
creating and how they hook people and pull them into their content.
Instagram Stories Strategy (Your Reality Show)
When Snapchat first came out, they became famous for their core feature: letting you create
short, 10-second videos that disappeared after 24 hours. I spent over a year growing my
Snapchat following and had mild success with my Stories there. The platform was hard to use,
it was almost impossible to grow an audience, and the stats they showed you were almost
useless. However, early trends showed that it was going to be the next big social network, so
we put in the time to try and make it work.
About a year into my Snapchat journey, I embarked on a charity trip to Kenya with a bunch
of big influencers to help build schools. On the second day, after we had finished working and
playing with the kids, we came back to our camps and checked our phones. That very day,
Instagram launched their new Stories feature. At first, we were skeptical. Honestly, we didn’t
want to make a switch to this new platform after we had spent so much time building up
Snapchat. Reluctantly, though, we decided to test the new platform. The next morning, we
each made the same posts on Instagram and Snapchat. Then, we watched our stats closely to
see which of the two platforms brought us the most eyeballs and engagement.
Knowing that this was a new feature to Instagram, I had a gut feeling that Zuckerberg was
going to bribe us early adopters with tons of free engagement so that we’d switch platforms.
And that’s exactly what he did. Despite the fact that my Instagram audience was small (about
30 percent the size of my Snapchat audience), I got four times more views on each of my
Instagram Stories than I did on Snapchat! As I shared my stats each night with the other
influencers on the trip, we found that all our stats were about the same. Over the next few
weeks, I started posting more and more on Instagram, and less and less on Snapchat, until,

