# CHUNK 1 (Paginas 1-20)


--- PAGINA 1 ---



--- PAGINA 2 ---



--- PAGINA 3 ---

Praise for Traffic Secrets
“Controlling traffic is the holy grail for any profitable business. This book is the online
formula to create the attention every product needs to thrive.”
— Steve J Larsen


--- PAGINA 4 ---



--- PAGINA 5 ---

ALSO BY
RUSSELL BRUNSON
DotCom Secrets
Expert Secrets
All of the above are available at your local bookstore, or may be ordered by
visiting:
Hay House USA: www.hayhouse.com®
Hay House Australia: www.hayhouse.com.au
Hay House UK: www.hayhouse.co.uk
Hay House India: www.hayhouse.co.in


--- PAGINA 6 ---



--- PAGINA 7 ---

Copyright © 2020 by Russell Brunson
Published in the United States by: Hay House, Inc.: www.hayhouse.com® • Published in Australia by:
Hay House Australia Pty. Ltd.: www.hayhouse.com.au • Published in the United Kingdom by: Hay House
UK, Ltd.: www.hayhouse.co.uk • Published in India by: Hay House Publishers India: www.hayhouse.co.in
Cover design: Jake Leslie
Interior design: Julie Davison
Interior illustrations: Arturo Alcazar
Cover photography: Brandan Fisher and Erin Blackwell
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced by any mechanical, photographic, or
electronic process, or in the form of a phonographic recording; nor may it be stored in a retrieval system,
transmitted, or otherwise be copied for public or private use—other than for “fair use” as brief quotations
embodied in articles and reviews—without prior written permission of the publisher.
The author of this book does not dispense business advice, only offers information of a general nature to
help you in your quest for business success. This book is not designed to be a definitive guide or to take the
place of advice from a qualified professional, and there is no guarantee that the methods suggested in this
book will be successful, owing to the risk that is involved in business of almost any kind. Thus, neither the
publisher nor the author assume liability for any losses that may be sustained by the use of the methods
described in this book, and any such liability is hereby expressly disclaimed. In the event you use any of the
information in this book for yourself, the author and the publisher assume no responsibility for your actions.
Cataloging-in-Publication Data is on file with the Library of Congress
Hardcover ISBN: 978-1-4019-5790-2
e-book ISBN: 978-1-4019-5791-9
Audiobook ISBN: 978-1-4019-5792-6


--- PAGINA 8 ---

This book is dedicated to the entrepreneurs whom I have been called to serve: my
“Funnel Hackers.” You’ve made it possible for me to do a work that interests me
and that I feel is meaningful and worthwhile. This final book in the Secrets trilogy
was created to help you find more of the people who are waiting to hear your
message. If this book helps you to reach even just one more person and change
their life with your God-given gifts, then this work will have been a success.


--- PAGINA 9 ---

CONTENTS
Foreword by Dean Graziosi
Preface
Introduction
SECTION ONE: Your Dream Customer
Secret #1: Who Is Your Dream Customer?
Secret #2: Where Are They Hiding? The Dream 100
Secret #3: Hook, Story, Offer, and the Attractive Character
Secret #4: Work Your Way In, Buy Your Way In
Secret #5: Traffic That You Own
Secret #6: Follow-Up Funnels
Secret #7: Infiltrating the Dream 100
SECTION TWO: Fill Your Funnel
Secret #8: Fill Your Funnel Organically (Working Your Way In)
Secret #9: Fill Your Funnel with Paid Ads (Buying Your Way In)
Secret #10: Instagram Traffic Secrets
Secret #11: Facebook Traffic Secrets
Secret #12: Google Traffic Secrets
Secret #13: YouTube Traffic Secrets
Secret #14: After the Slaps and the Snaps
Secret #15: Conversation Domination
SECTION THREE: Growth Hacking
Secret #16: The Funnel Hub
Secret #17: Other People’s Distribution Channels
Secret #18: Your Affiliate Army
Secret #19: Cold Traffic
Secret #20: Other Growth Hacks
Conclusion
Endnotes
Acknowledgments
About the Author
eBook Supplemental Material


--- PAGINA 10 ---

PUBLISHER’S NOTE
Throughout this eBook, the author uses screenshots and diagrams. Some of these images may
not display well on your eReader device.
You can download a free PDF containing all these images from hayhouse.com. See the eBook
Supplemental Material section for download details.


--- PAGINA 11 ---

FOREWORD
“Twenty-five thousand dollars. Do I hear thirty?”
The voice of the auctioneer was fast, and the suspense built as the bidding got higher and
higher.
“Yes,” I said.
“Thirty thousand dollars from the black-haired gentlemen in the front.”
“Forty,” a voice behind me said.
“Forty thousand dollars from the man in the back.”
“Forty-five,” I said.
“Forty-five thousand dollars!”
I couldn’t see who was bidding against me, but when the auctioneer finally arrived at
$50,000, I decided to stop bidding.
To my surprise, so did the person behind me. The auctioneer yelled out, “Number 27, you
win the bid!”
I was Number 27. I won. I was bidding to name a commercial Virgin Atlantic plane. Yes, I
know that may sound pretentious, but it was for a great cause.
About 12 years before writing this, I was at one of Richard Branson’s charity events. I had
met Richard several years earlier when a friend and I raised a lot of money for his charity
Virgin Unite.
At this charity event, I had decided I’d go all in. Richard was paying all the bills for the
charity, and 100 percent of the money we donated was going to help those who needed it
most.
Well, the gentleman three tables behind me had come to the same conclusion—which is why
it was going to cost me $50,000 to name a plane.
After I won the bid, Richard stood up and proclaimed, “Why fight over it, boys? I’ll give it to
both of you for fifty thousand dollars each! It’s all going to charity!”
The person who walked up on stage with me (and who was bidding against me) was a young
man who looked 10 years younger than he actually was.
His name was Russell Brunson.
It was the first time I had actually met him in person. What a charming guy he was, there for
the same reason as I was: to help people in need.
There were people in the room that day who were super famous, a lot richer, and way more
well known than both Russell and me. But he was the guy who left a mark on me.
I didn’t really get to know Russell until a few years later, but when I did, I realized he was
one of the most humble, smart, ambitious, energetic, and authentic human beings I’d ever
met.
What most impressed me was how he talked about helping entrepreneurs grow faster. He
talked about them as if they were his children, and with an authentic excitement.
That’s very rare in our world today.
Russell’s focus was never on how much money he was going to make or how big his
business was going to be. He always looked through the lens of how to help people go faster.
He took that energy and passion and cofounded a company called ClickFunnels, which has
revolutionized the way people use the internet to turn their ideas into sellable products and
services. Russell has truly given people a faster way to make an impact and profit from their
ideas.
Russell’s passion drove ClickFunnels to become one of the fastest-growing software as a
service (SaaS) companies of all time, creating massive impact on tens of thousands of lives
around the world.
The overwhelming success people have gotten from using Russell’s software and trainings is
unprecedented.
But that’s not the only reason you need to read this book.
The global economy and how we consume products and information has already changed
drastically and will continue to evolve. Those who don’t have the necessary skills and
capabilities—to sell their products and services, to market their brick-and-mortar company, or
to create funnels that brings customers to their doors—will be left behind.


--- PAGINA 12 ---

I’m not saying that to scare you.
But understand, I’m not just taking a wild guess.
I see it coming, and I have the same passion Russell does. I’ve been blessed to be in the self-
education industry for over 22 years. I’m a multiple New York Times best-selling author, and
I’ve been able to start 13 companies that have generated over a billion dollars in sales.
These opportunities have positioned me at the edge of this world, and I can see the change
coming.
Is there any worse feeling than being left behind? Russell Brunson’s passion for helping you
avoid that feeling is why he wrote this book, and my shared passion is why I wrote this
Foreword.
This book reveals the most cutting-edge way to drive eyeballs to your product or service to
help people find you.
There’s a classic movie with Kevin Costner called Field of Dreams.1 It’s about building a
baseball stadium in the middle of nowhere. The movie is great, but it sends a bad message
that people will come simply by something being built.
Unfortunately, too many people in business have taken the concept literally and have
decided to run their businesses that way. They think if they build the best product or service,
invent the best widget, create the best mastermind, or write the best book, the world will just
find it. They think that as long as they build the best product or service, people will just show
up to buy it.
The reality is they won’t just come.
Unless people know that you exist and you give them a compelling reason to come find you,
they aren’t coming.
Without good marketing, your ideas will just be that: good ideas. Imagine looking back when
you’re 80 years old and feeling like you just dabbled with 20 different great ideas but never
really made the impact you desired.
It doesn’t have to be that way.
Russell’s expertise is massive, and he uses all of it in this book to expose the “new” way to
drive the right people to your product, service, idea, company, mastermind, or book. He’s
giving you secrets that no one has revealed in this way before, and he does it in a simplistic
manner that makes his lessons easy to absorb and understand.
He reveals exactly how to drive traffic to your business, product, or website.
This is one of those books that, if consumed and applied properly, could be a game changer
for your life.
By the time you’re done reading this book, you will understand so much more clearly why
certain online companies are thriving and why others are struggling.
You will understand why the business you started in the past didn’t get the results you had
hoped for.
You might also realize the reason why you’re already doing so well and learn how you can do
even better.
The world has changed. And for those who don’t know how to pivot, a life of struggle may lie
ahead. Or—less dramatic but equally sad—yours could be a life, a purpose, unrealized. A life
in which you don’t tap into your next level and you never reach your full potential.
In this powerful book, Russell Brunson opens his heart and shares the tactics and strategies
necessary to make sure you reach your full potential.
Hold on tight and discover what it’s like to profit, make an impact, and create a company
with momentum that thrives in today’s world.
—Dean Graziosi


--- PAGINA 13 ---

PREFACE
YOU BRING THE FIRE . . .
I’LL GIVE YOU THE FRAMEWORK
On September 23, 2014, Todd Dickerson, Dylan Jones, and I launched a new software
company that we naively believed would change the world. The goal was to create a product
that would free all entrepreneurs and give them the ability to get their message out to the
market, faster and easier than ever before, so they could change the lives of the customers
they were called to serve. The company we launched was called ClickFunnels.
A few short months after we launched ClickFunnels, I released a book that I had been
working on for almost a decade. I was a first-time author, and because my book was about
sales funnels (something that was extremely exciting to me, but pretty boring to most others),
I was nervous about how people would respond to it. That book was called DotCom Secrets,
and little did I know that book would become the playbook for how to build sales funnels
online and was the key to the initial growth of our company. When people understood how
they could use funnels to grow their companies . . . well, they started using funnels to grow
their companies.
A few of the core concepts that I first revealed in DotCom Secrets were:
The secret of the value ladder, and how you can use it to provide more value to your
customers and make more money from every customer in the process.
How to attract your dream customers that you want to work with and repel the types
of customers you don’t want to work with so you only spend time serving the people that
you enjoy being around.
The exact funnels and sales scripts you can use to convert website and funnel visitors
into customers and move them through your value ladder so you can serve them at your
highest level.
And a whole bunch more . . .
As Garrett J. White told me after reading the book and applying it to his company: “I already
had the fire, but you gave me the framework I needed to grow.” Over the next two years, that
book became the underground playbook used by over 100,000 marketers to build their sales
funnels online.
Figure 0.1: DotCom Secrets helps marketers to build their sales funnels online. (If you don’t have
the DotCom Secrets book yet, go to DotComSecrets.com to get a free copy.)


--- PAGINA 14 ---

But as ClickFunnels grew, I started to see a big division between those who were making
money with their funnels and those who made funnels but weren’t making any money. People
had mastered funnel structure and framework because of DotCom Secrets (and they could
quickly build those funnels inside of ClickFunnels), but some people weren’t making any
money because they lacked the basic understanding of how to convert their funnel’s visitors
into customers. They didn’t understand the fundamentals of persuasion, storytelling, building
a tribe, becoming a leader, and communicating with the people who entered into their funnels.
And so I began my second book with the goal of helping readers to learn and master the
persuasion secrets that are necessary to convert people at each stage of their funnels. While
DotCom Secrets was the “science” of funnel building, Expert Secrets became the “art” behind
successful funnels, helping people to move through your funnels and become your dream
customers.
Figure 0.2: Expert Secrets helps marketers master the art of converting leads into dream
customers. (If you don’t have the Expert Secrets book yet, go to ExpertSecrets.com to get a free
copy.)
That brings us to this book, the third and final volume in the trilogy, Traffic Secrets. Traffic
is the fuel for every successful business. It is the people who are coming into your funnels. The
more people you can get in front of, the bigger impact you and your company can have, which,
in turn, usually creates more money for your company.
As we watched members of ClickFunnels growing their companies with funnels using the
structure from DotCom Secrets and the persuasion skills they learned from Expert Secrets,
many people were still struggling because they didn’t know how to get consistent traffic or
people into their funnels. On the flip side, those who were getting traffic from Facebook or
Google were nervous that if either of their sources dried up, they could lose their company
overnight.
Traffic Secrets approaches traffic from a completely different direction than anyone has
discussed before: less from the tactical, fly-by-night operations and more from the strategic,
long-term model that will ensure a consistent flow of people into your funnels. The strategies
inside of this book are evergreen and will never change as long as there are humans on this
planet to sell to.


--- PAGINA 15 ---

Figure 0.3: Traffic Secrets helps marketers learn the strategies to drive consistent traffic to their
funnels.
Each book in the Secrets trilogy was written as a stand-alone playbook, but mastering the
skills from all three books is essential for the long-term growth of your company. Because of
that, each book refers to and ties in important concepts from the others.
If you are interested in the most up-to-date information, I invite you to go to MarketingSecre
ts.com to listen in on my podcast, Marketing Secrets. It’s published twice a week and covers
everything we’re learning and discovering in real time. I share new secrets every week for
free that build on the evergreen topics and frameworks that you’re mastering in these books.
I hope that you can use this trilogy of books to change the lives of the customers you have
been called to serve. Everything written in these three books is evergreen and focuses on
concepts that have worked yesterday, are working today, and will continue to work tomorrow
and forever.


--- PAGINA 16 ---

INTRODUCTION
THERE’S A STORM COMING . . .
April 27, 2018, was a day that my kids and I had looked forward to for a long time. It was the
opening night of the movie Avengers: Infinity War.2 I’ve been a superhero fan ever since the
first Iron Man movie came out, but not long enough to know the entire history from the
original comic books, so everything that was happening in the movie was a huge surprise to
me. This was the 19th movie in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and all of the prior movies had
culminated into this epic standoff between Thanos and the Avengers.
In the movie, you see Thanos as the ultimate bad guy, but he actually thinks he is doing
good. He’s concerned that the universe is overpopulated, and he believes it’s his mission to
save it. His goal is to gather all the infinity stones, put them into his gauntlet (like a big glove),
and, when he snaps his fingers, restore balance to the universe by killing half its population.
The movie ended (spoiler alert) with a huge cliffhanger after Thanos collected all the infinity
stones and snapped his fingers. In an instant, half the people in the universe disappeared. The
next day after watching the movie, I was talking to my friend and fellow online marketer Peng
Joon about the movie and he said something that sparked an idea. That idea later became an
event and has since resulted in me writing this book.
Talking about the founder of Facebook, Peng Joon said, “Do you ever feel that Mark
Zuckerberg is like Thanos, and his whole goal is to wipe out half the entrepreneurs who are
advertising on Facebook? He could literally snap his fingers and half the online entrepreneurs
would lose their businesses overnight.”
That statement quickly got my mind racing back to 2003, the year I bought my very first
Google ad. I had just purchased a book from Chris Carpenter: Google Cash. It showed how
easy it was to set up Google ads and drive them to any website you wanted! It was simple
arbitrage. I would spend $0.25 to get someone to click on my ad, they would go to my website,
and I would (hopefully) make $2–3 dollars in sales for each click I received.
At first, it seemed too good to be true, but I decided to set up my first ad in Google selling a
DVD on how to make potato guns. When someone would search for “potato guns” or “spud
guns” in Google, my ad would show up. If they clicked on my ad (charging me $0.25), they
would end up on my website HowToMakeAPotatoGun.com. A percentage of the people who
landed on that page would buy the DVD, and I became an instant “DotCom thousandaire.” (I
wasn’t quite a millionaire yet, but if everything kept working the way it was those early days, I
would have been in just a few short months!)
But then it happened . . .
People called it the “Google slap,” but for me it looked like it was the end to my online
career. My costs went from $0.25 a click to $3 per click or more! Instantly, half the online
entrepreneurs who were buying ads on Google (including myself) lost their businesses
overnight.
Most of the people I knew at that time who were making a killing on Google never recovered
from that first Google slap. Most of us were confused about why Google would charge 10
times the prices of our ads overnight. Soon, though, after the dust settled, it started to make
sense.
Google only wanted the big brands: the companies who would spend a million dollars a
month in ads, not the small guys like me who were just spending a few thousand dollars a
month. The small entrepreneurs like myself only made up a tiny percentage of their overall
revenue, and we were likely the ones who caused 90 percent or more of their headaches. They
didn’t care about us; they only cared about the really big advertisers. And what started as the
best way for the little guys to have success quickly disappeared when Larry Page and Sergey
Brin (the founders of Google) decided to give us small entrepreneurs the slap.
In DotCom Secrets, I share that the way I saved myself (and my tiny little company) from
this Google slap was by learning how to use funnels. I changed my little potato gun website
into a funnel where I could make more money from each visitor who clicked on my ads.
Google’s costs didn’t go down, so I found a way to pay for those costs. I would spend the $3
per click that Google wanted to charge me, and then I would make $5–$6 from everyone who


--- PAGINA 17 ---

came into my funnel. That strategy is outside of the context of this book, but I write about it
extensively in both DotCom Secrets and Expert Secrets.
After that initial Google slap, the entrepreneurs who survived started looking for other ways
to save their companies. Some turned to email marketing and others turned to paid ads on
other blogs and websites, but the majority of marketers started getting the bulk of their traffic
from Google’s free search platform.
We all started to learn how to play that game. We’d get ranked really high for the core
keywords that we used to pay Google for, and traffic started coming back to our funnels for
free! Again, this seemed like it was too good to be true, but for years this was the secret!
Then one day, just like before, Google decided it was time to change things up once again.
The next few years were known for dozens of new Google slaps that affected people who were
ranking high in the free search results.
Each morning we would wake up, hoping and praying that we were still ranking for the
keywords we had worked so hard to earn, but we were at Google’s mercy. Our future was
outside of our own control. Each slap would take out another huge percentage of
entrepreneurs. Soon, they started giving each of these slaps cute little names like “Panda,”
“Penguin,” and “Hummingbird,” but each new slap meant another group of entrepreneurs had
to wake up to a reality where their companies had dried up overnight. They had lost all their
traffic, and because traffic equaled customers, they had no business.
The decade from the early 2000s to 2010 was a constant fight for most entrepreneurs to
stay alive. Then, in 2007, the dawn of a new era of online advertising started when Mark
Zuckerberg introduced his new Facebook Ads platform. Just as Google did when they first
opened up their platform, Facebook made it easy and affordable for entrepreneurs to buy ads.
The costs were low, and arbitrage was simple. Facebook’s goal was adoption: to get as many
people as possible (and as fast as possible) to use their ads service. And that’s exactly what
happened.
For people like me, it was like the good ol’ days of Google where I could spend $0.25 in ads
and make $2–$3 back for each click! Many of the entrepreneurs whom I now coach started
their companies around this time and have leveraged Facebook to grow their companies
quickly.
But for the marketers who have been around long enough to remember the earlier blood
baths that Google and other platforms had put us through, the patterns of Facebook have
almost identically matched what Google did when it started.
Step #1) The Adoption: Make the barrier of entry easy to get everyone in and using the
platform.
Step #2) The Price Hike: Slowly raise the prices to squeeze out the margins, killing off any
entrepreneurs who don’t understand how to use funnels.
Step #3) The Slap: Kill off the 50 percent of advertisers who cause 90 percent of their
headaches. (If you spend less than $1 million per month on ads, you’re considered a small
advertiser. You only make up a tiny percentage of their revenue, yet you’re 100 times harder
to support than a big brand who cares less about ROI and more about just seeing their brand
everywhere.)
That day after the movie, Peng Joon and I joked that instead of a Google slap, we were going
to see a Zuckerberg/Thanos (we’ve now nicknamed him “Zanos”) snap, where 50 percent of all
entrepreneur businesses would disappear overnight.
If you rely 100 percent on Facebook for your traffic, then this is your warning that a storm is
coming. You should implement everything you read in this book so you can protect your
company and thrive during that storm. On the other hand, if the Zanos snap has already
happened and you woke up one morning to a dead (or quickly dying) business, then this book
is your answer on how to save your company and get it to thrive again.
Over the past decade and a half that I’ve been playing this game, I’ve survived (and even
thrived) during dozens of Google slaps, the “death” of email marketing, algorithm changes,
the rise and fall of tons of social networks, and the fragmentation of online media. The
question begs to be asked: Why did we survive when so many other companies have failed?
TWO REASONS WE SURVIVED WHEN OTHERS FAILED
We understand how to use funnels. With funnels, we can make 5–10 times as much
money for each visitor who clicks on our ads, so we survive and thrive when costs go up.


--- PAGINA 18 ---

We have mastered the strategy (not just the tactics) behind getting traffic, and these
strategies work on all advertising platforms in the past, present, and future. If you master
these strategies, then no slap or snap can affect the lifeblood of your company.
There will be another storm soon, just like there was with Google. It’s happened time and
time again, and we know that the greatest predictor of the future is the past. This storm is
headed our way, and thousands of entrepreneurs are unaware.
I feel like I have a moral responsibility to the 100,000-plus members of our ClickFunnels
community and to the 1,000,000-plus entrepreneurs who follow me, and to anyone else who
will listen to prepare them for this storm. Those who master these strategies will absorb the
traffic, customers, and sales of those who were not prepared. Master these principles and you
and your company will thrive.
AN EVERGREEN BOOK ABOUT THE FASTEST CHANGING TOPIC OF ALL TIME?
My biggest fear when I decided to take on writing this book was figuring out how to create a
book about traffic that was evergreen. After all, how do you teach concepts that will last
forever on a topic that changes almost daily? Every book that I’ve read about traffic in the
past 10 years has focused on trendy tactics, which usually became irrelevant within months of
being published. Oftentimes they became obsolete before they even got to print.
The tactics behind how to get someone to click on an ad and come to your website literally
change daily. In fact, I know people whose full-time jobs are solely dedicated to keeping up to
speed with the changes that Facebook makes to its algorithm and Ads Manager. If I try to give
you the latest tactic or hack that works today, by the time you read this paragraph, it will
likely be wildly out of date.
How many of us would have known five or six years ago that Instagram would be the
powerhouse it is today? Who could have foreseen that Messenger bots would turn into a really
cool thing, then be almost dead in the water for a few months because of Facebook legal
troubles, and shortly thereafter come back to life? What social platforms and technologies are
still waiting to be discovered that we haven’t even yet conceived?
I then started to think about the wake of dead businesses I had seen in the past 15 years. So
many entrepreneurs found temporary success because they figured out one way to get traffic
or they mastered one tactic (e.g., Google ads or SEO), but then in one quick slap, they lost
everything.
I started thinking about why I’d been able not to just survive during each of the slaps, but
actually thrive. The more I thought about why we’ve done so well, despite the constant
changes, the more I realized that I didn’t learn traffic the way most other entrepreneurs
learned traffic.
Normally, most people learn how to get traffic in the following manner. A new website will
become popular and quickly grow a big user base where entrepreneurs will see an opportunity
where they can buy or earn traffic on this new platform—for example, Twitter or Facebook. A
group of early adopters start using it, and they figure out the tricks to leverage the platform to
get traffic. For the next few months or years, they use these concepts to mine out tons of
traffic at very low costs.
Eventually, more people find out about it and start using these channels. With more demand
for this new traffic, the supply goes down, and the platforms start charging more money for
each click. An entrepreneur may see the opportunity that this new tactic has created and try
to capitalize on it by teaching others how to do it. After learning how to exploit this new
traffic, tens of thousands of new people start using the platform. Demand goes up, supply goes
down, and prices quickly increase.
Others see the success of this new course teaching this new tactic, and they want in. A few
dozen copycat courses come out, and now there’s a small army of people selling courses on
how to leverage this new type of traffic. Demand goes up, supply goes down, and prices keep
going up.
Somewhere in this process, you (or the marketing person on your team) see the ad for the
course, so you buy it, study it, and start leveraging this new loophole. How much you are
paying for these ads will depend on how early you got in, which also determines how much
success you’ll have using this tactic. Eventually, the costs will get high enough that most
businesses will no longer be able to profitably use these tactics. Those who understand
funnels will last much longer because they will make more money from each visitor who clicks
on their ads, but this tactic will soon become obsolete.
This process is how most people learn to get traffic to their websites and into their funnels,


--- PAGINA 19 ---

and that’s where the problem comes from. How are you supposed to build your foundation for
your company on a slippery slope like that?
The reason I am still here today is because when I started playing this game 15 years ago,
there weren’t any traffic courses teaching the latest tactics. The people I studied with didn’t
have the internet when they were growing their companies. The people I learned from were
some of the old-school, direct response marketing greats like Dan Kennedy, Bill Glazer, Gary
Halbert, Jay Abraham, Joe Sugarman, Chet Holmes, Fred Catona, Don Lapre, Eugene
Schwartz, David Ogilvy, and Robert Collier. These guys didn’t have the luxury of Facebook or
Google; they learned the strategies of driving traffic before there even was an internet!
Instead, they drove traffic with direct mail, radio ads, TV, and newspapers.
These direct response marketers forced me to look at marketing and sales in a completely
different way than people do today. They trained me on the core strategies of what makes a
direct mail campaign work: how to get radio, magazines, or classified ads to profitably drive
customers to you. The strategies I mastered during a decade of studying direct response
marketing gave me a very different lens which has given my companies the ability to be at the
front of the new trends, master the emerging tactics before most people even know they exist,
see opportunities that are invisible to most everyone else, and laugh every time there is a
Google slap or Zanos snap.
Moving forward, you have to understand that traffic is people, and people are extremely
predictable. The core strategies that I’m going to teach you will outlast and supersede any
particular platform, so you can apply them anywhere.
THE BIG CHALLENGE
Some of you may be shocked or offended that nowhere in this book—a book entirely about
traffic—will you see a single image of the Facebook Ads editor or a detailed explanation
showing you how to set up your Google Ads campaign. I didn’t put any platform-specific
screenshots inside of this book because I wanted this work to remain evergreen for you. The
backends of each system are constantly changing, and any snapshot I take today would be out
of date before you even started reading.
Instead, we will be focusing on strategies that don’t change, including:
Identifying your dream customers
Finding out where they are already congregating online
Learning how to “work” your way in
Understanding how to “buy” your way in
Creating your own publishing platform
Building your own distribution lists
All these strategies have one big thing in common: when the storms come, the user interface
changes, or the traffic moves, they will still work! They leverage the big media properties
(such as Google, YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram) when they are hot, but also when these
platforms change, you can easily move to where the eyeballs go. It worked for me when I was
forced to move from Friendster (most of you don’t even remember Friendster, do you?) to
Myspace to Facebook . . . and it will work when we have to move from Facebook and Google to
the next big networks too!
This book will give you the safety and security you need to know that your business, traffic,
and leads are all on stable ground. In Section One, you will learn how to identify exactly who
your dream customers are, where you can find them, and how to get access to them. In
Section Two, I will show you the simple pattern that you can use to drive traffic into your
funnels from any advertising network, including Facebook, Instagram, Google, and YouTube.
I’ll also demonstrate how mastering this simple pattern will unlock the doors to a consistent
stream of traffic on any of these networks. Finally, Section Three will reveal powerful growth
hacking techniques that will help you to increase your traffic even if you don’t have access to
Facebook or Google or any other advertising networks.
Mastering these growth hacks will give you the ability to build your traffic foundation on
solid ground. I’ve spent over 15 years learning and mastering these concepts and strategies,
and I’m so excited to be able to give them to you right now!


--- PAGINA 20 ---

SECTION ONE
YOUR DREAM CUSTOMER
The phone rang. It was Chad. Well, he was Chad to me, but to his patients, his name was Dr.
Woolner.
“Hello?” I answered.
“Hey, man. I know it’s late, but do you have some time to talk? I’m in a really bad place right
now.”
“Sure,” I quickly responded. “I’ll be right over.”
Just five years earlier, Dr. Woolner had graduated with his Doctorate of Chiropractic (DC)
degree. Shortly thereafter, he moved his family to Boise, Idaho, to work as an associate
chiropractor for a new clinic in town. His goal wasn’t to work for someone else, though. While
Chad is an amazing chiropractor, he’s an even better entrepreneur, and he wanted to start his
own practice. He went through the process of writing a business plan, getting a small business
loan, remodeling a new office, getting logos designed, and everything else that goes into
starting your own business.
I knew that business had been slow ever since he had opened his doors, but I didn’t know
how slow until I got to his office that night.
“I’m not gonna make it,” he said. “We’re out of money and we have no way to get more
patients in the door.”
I spent some time talking to him about the situation and gave him some possible ideas to get
more business. Then he said something that hit me like a ton of bricks.
“I went to college for four years to get my degree, then I spent an additional four years at
chiropractic college to become a chiropractor. In all that time, not once did they ever talk
about how to actually get patients to come to my clinic.”
Isn’t that unbelievable? They could lock up an entrepreneur for eight years to teach them a
skill, but not even spend 10 minutes showing them how to market that skill. To me, it’s the
biggest problem with our education system, and it’s one of the biggest issues that plague new
entrepreneurs in any market. They believe that if they build a great product, or create an
amazing company, the customers will automatically follow.
I see entrepreneurs who will invest every last penny they have to create the products and
services they think will change the world without ever considering who their dream customers
are or how they’re going to reach them.
They’ll happily invest in coaching, product creation, design, education—almost everything—
but when you then tell them to buy ads on Facebook or Google, they freeze. Or when you tell
them that they’re going to have to put in their own time and sweat equity to get visitors
organically, they often think they’re above it.
Some think, My product is so good, I don’t need to pay for traffic.
Still others believe they’re entitled to customers because they feel they built a better
product than their competitors. So they wait, all the while thinking, I built it. Why aren’t they
coming?
Yet after coaching hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, I can tell you that the people
who put all their focus on creating something amazing (instead of also focusing on getting
people to actually see what they created) are the people that fail. The biggest problem they
have is getting their future customers to discover that they even exist. Every year, tens of
thousands of businesses start and fail because the entrepreneurs don’t understand this one
essential skill: the art and science of getting traffic (or people) to find you.
And that is a tragedy.
I feel like I have been called and placed on this earth with a mission to help entrepreneurs
get their messages out to the world about their products and services. I strongly believe that
entrepreneurs are the only people on earth who can actually change the world. It won’t
happen in government, and I don’t think it will happen in schools.
It’ll happen because of entrepreneurs like you who are willing to risk everything to try and
make that dream become a reality.
For all the entrepreneurs who fail in their first year of business, it is a tragedy when the one

