# CHUNK 7 (Paginas 121-140)


--- PAGINA 121 ---

SECRET #12
GOOGLE TRAFFIC SECRETS
The first time someone told me about Google, I was at a public library in 2001 in New Jersey,
frustrated at how hard it was to find things online. The lady sitting next to me leaned over and
said, “You should try www.Google.com. It’s new, and every time I search on it, I’m always able
to actually find what I’m looking for.”
I shrugged and decided to give it a try. I slowly typed it in for the first time, letter by letter,
and after the search bar loaded, I typed in the same keywords I had tried on a dozen other
search engines. Within seconds, I found exactly what I was looking for! I’m assuming that your
first experience was probably similar, and that’s why we all kept going back.
STEP #1: UNDERSTAND THE HISTORY AND THE GOAL
It was 1996 at Stanford University when Larry Page and Sergey Brin started working on their
first search engine called BackRub.33 At the time, searching on the internet was just starting.
Search engines like Excite, Yahoo!, Ask Jeeves, and more started to pop up. They each had
different ways they indexed pages and showed their results.
Larry and Sergey had the idea that a better way to display search results was to look at the
number of links coming back to a page (called backlinks) to estimate the value of that page.
They theorized that the more backlinks pointed to a page, the more important the website
must be, and therefore, the higher it would rank in the search engines. They wrote a
mathematical algorithm that was based on that premise and created what are often called
“spiders” to crawl the internet and count the number of backlinks pointing to every web page
they could find, identifying the keyword phrases that are on the actual web page, and then
ranking them for those keywords.
They found out quickly that their hypothesis was correct. This new algorithm made for a
better searching experience for the end user, and it started to grow fast. The first year they
hosted BackRub on Stanford’s servers, but eventually, when they used up too much
bandwidth, they had to move it. On September 15, 1997, they registered Google.com, and
launched a dynasty based on a simple algorithm.
Google’s algorithm made the so-called “cream of the World Wide Web” automatically rise to
the top of the search results. In turn, the companies whose sites were indexed at the top of the
search engines for certain keywords got flooded with so much traffic, so many visitors, and so
many leads that many of them couldn’t keep up with the business. Being ranked on the first
page in Google for a major keyword could bring you hundreds of thousands (and in some cases
millions) of dollars overnight! With that much money on the line for each ranked keyword,
almost everyone who noticed what was happening wanted to be at the top, no matter the cost.
That’s the funny thing about algorithms: they don’t care who you are. They don’t care who
has the best product, the best customer support, or who will treat the customers the best. All
they know is that if a page meets their certain criteria, they rank it higher than a page that
doesn’t meet their criteria. It’s that simple. When you understand that, then the question
quickly becomes, “What exactly is the algorithm looking for, and how do I tweak what I’m
doing to beat the algorithm so I can be ranked at the top?”
Google’s original algorithm was primarily based on backlinks. If you had 100 links on other
people’s websites all pointing to your page and your competitor had 101 links, your
competitor would outrank you. As soon as people hacked the algorithm and figured out what
made them win, they would do whatever they needed to rank them at the top.


--- PAGINA 122 ---

Figure 12.1: Google’s original algorithm ranked a website at the top if it had the most backlinks
for a certain search keyword.
I first discovered this when I was launching one of my first funnels ever. It was for my
product teaching people how to make potato guns. I did some very basic keyword research
and found that, at the time, there were about 18,000 people per month searching for the
keyword phrase “potato gun.” I was shocked that there were that many searches and no one
was selling a product showing people how to make potato guns! So I made a DVD, set up my
funnel, and tried to get traffic.
The first thing I did was type “potato gun” into Google, and I looked at the sites that were
ranking on the first page. I had heard people say that the secret to being a good real estate
investor was “location, location, location.” I remember thinking that these 10 spots on page
number one were the most prime real estate in the world for someone selling potato gun
plans. Being ranked on that first page was the big secret!
I had to figure out how to get on that page, and the first step was figuring out the algorithm
that decided which pages deserved to be at the top. Google was still in its infancy then, and as
I started researching how to outrank my competitors, I learned that the only thing that
mattered was backlinks. There were a few rudimentary tools that would show you how many
links a page had, and within minutes, I knew exactly how many links I needed to be on the
first page and how many links I needed to be in the top spot.
After that, it was on like Donkey Kong. I started doing everything in my power to get links. I
would buy links from people. I found sites that would let me post links in their directories. I
would post in forums and link back to my page. I would basically drop links on any and every
page that would let me, including “Free for All,” or FFA, pages (later nicknamed “link farms”),
where you could submit as many links as you wanted. Within days, I saw my site move from
the 100th page in Google to the 50th, to the 20th, and finally all the way to the second page! I
was almost there! I was so close I could taste it. Within days, I would have my new potato gun
storefront property listed on the most ideal real estate in the world: page one for my dream
keyword.
And then it happened. It was my first of many experiences with a Google slap. Overnight, my
page was gone, dropped from the search engines forever. I didn’t know why. I didn’t
understand where it went, but as I went looking for answers, I saw that it wasn’t just me.
In the big scheme of things, my potato gun keywords were tiny. While 18,000 people might
seem like a lot when you’re printing and shipping potato gun DVDs from your basement, it
was tiny in relation to other keywords. Some keywords get hundreds of thousands or millions
of visitors a month. Imagine being on page number one for “hotels” or “cars.” These keywords
can and do make hundreds of millions of dollars for those who can hold their spot at the top.
But even the phrase “emergency plumber Boise Idaho” will grow a local company faster than
anything else one could ever dream of.
So what was the Google slap? Well, each slap is different and is issued for different reasons,
but the main reason always comes down to the battle between Google and the marketers.
Google wants to show its visitors the best web page for every search. Marketers like us want
our web page to be shown at the top. The battle between us and each platform is why the
algorithms have to constantly change and evolve. That’s why almost every book that has ever
been written on getting online traffic is obsolete within months.


--- PAGINA 123 ---

These slaps happen with Google, and they also occur with Facebook, Instagram, and
YouTube. As soon as the platforms figure out the perfect algorithm that shows the best results,
us marketers all start using our creative minds to figure out how to hack the algorithm so we
can be in the number one spot or to make our videos go viral or get our posts, pictures, and
images to get the most likes, shares, and views. With each keyword, image, or viral video
potentially being worth millions of dollars, these platforms have created a scenario where the
smartest people in the world are all focused on reverse engineering the algorithm for
themselves, to get and keep their companies at the top.
That is why, in this book, I’m never going to tell you how to hack an exact algorithm. We
never really know exactly what it is, even though we can get close by modeling what is
currently having success. And it changes constantly. So instead of showing you how to hack an
exact algorithm, I’ll show you the history of each algorithm, as well as the changes that have
taken place over time. After all, understanding the history and the changes make it easier to
see the future and where things are going. I’ll show you how to figure out what the algorithms
are right now on each platform so you can play the game that is working today, in real time.
The real secret to traffic isn’t knowing exactly what the algorithm is before you get on each
platform; the real secret is being able to look at each platform and quickly figure out what the
algorithm is now.
Let me quickly take you through a history of each Google slap so you can understand the
evolution of the algorithm and where it is today.
The Four Phases of Google
Phase #1—Popularity through backlinks: As you’ve just seen, the big breakthrough that
made Google the best search engine in the world was that they ranked your web pages based
on how many other pages were talking about you and linking back to you. Each link that
someone else posted on a page that linked back to your website counted as a “vote” and
pushed your page up through Google’s rankings.
The game was fun. You would pick a keyword you wanted, find out how many backlinks the
person who was ranked number one had, and then you only needed to get more backlinks than
they had. For example, if the number-one spot had 100 backlinks, you needed at least 101
backlinks to replace them.
The problem is that it created a game that was easy to win if you were okay with spamming
the search engines. People would hire huge teams of workers overseas to post their links on
every website they could find. Eventually, software was also built that would allow you to post
hundreds of links with the simple click of a few buttons. What started out as the perfect
ranking algorithm quickly became a cesspool with the most spammed pages rising to the top.
This didn’t give Google’s users a good customer experience, so they had to make changes.
Phase #2—Page rank and on-page optimization: To clean up this mess, Google started to
look more closely at two things. The first was the actual quality of the links that were pointing
back to you. They created something called “page rank” to give a quality score to every
page.34 This made it possible to assign a weight to every link that was pointing back to your
website. No longer would 101 links beat out 100 links; instead, if you had fewer links coming
from higher-quality pages, you could win, even with much fewer links. This solved a lot of
problems for Google and cleaned up the results for a while, but inevitably it made people start
focusing their spamming efforts on better sites. Pretty soon, a whole underground industry
popped up where you could buy links on high page-rank sites.
Because garbage sites were rising to the top of the search engines, Google had its spiders
look more closely at the actual content that was on the pages, not just how many links the web
pages were getting.35 Google rewarded people who structured their web page content in a
way that gave people the best user experience. This created a whole new industry of
specialists who became amazing at doing on-page optimization, essentially creating pages that
Google loved to rank high. But, as happens with most good things, the marketers mastered the
algorithm again. They created software that would find articles from other people’s sites,
scrape the articles, rewrite them (we used to call it “spinning” because it would take a
percentage of the words in the article, look for other words in the thesaurus that had similar
meanings, and replace the original words with the new, similar words so it looked like a new
article), and display them in a way that would trick Google into ranking them high once again.
Ultimately, it still gave end users a bad user experience. As good as Google’s algorithm was,
people kept finding ways to beat it.
Phase #3—The Google zoo: Panda, Penguin, Hummingbird:36 Starting in about 2011, the


--- PAGINA 124 ---

organic “Google slap” began, meaning Google made a bunch of huge algorithm changes
designed to clean up their search results. Each update was given the name of an animal.
It started with Panda, which killed content farms and scraper sites that people had created
to beat the algorithm. In 2012, Penguin went live, penalizing people who were buying links or
obtaining them through networks that were designed to boost search rankings.
In 2013, Hummingbird figured out the intent behind a search rather than just the keyword
itself, giving Google the artificial intelligence it needed to figure out what people were actually
looking for. This was a huge update to Google’s core algorithm, and it had only one goal: to
make a better experience for those who were searching for something.
Phase #4—Mobilegeddon and Fred: For years, Google didn’t implement any big updates.
That is, until 2015, which has been called the year of mobile. It was the first time that mobile
searches bypassed desktop searches on Google. This was also the year that Google launched
their new updated algorithm that ranked you higher if your site was optimized for mobile. This
update forced everyone to redesign their pages to create a better mobile experience for
Google’s mobile searchers.
Two years later, we were introduced to the update that was unofficially named Fred.37 This
update is the one that I think is most important for us all to understand, as it gives us the
pattern to be successful with search in the future. Fred penalized sites that prioritized
monetization over user experience. If your site had low user engagement, was thin in content,
or had content heavily geared toward conversions, pop-ups, and aggressive advertising, you
lost your rankings overnight.
So, why are Fred and all its predecessors so important? They help us to see Google’s core
goal: a better user experience. If we can align with Google’s goals, they will send us an almost
unlimited amount of traffic for free. Trying to spam the algorithms may give you short-term
gains, but only until Google finds the loopholes and closes them. However, the real secret is
understanding Google’s intent and helping them to serve their searchers.
Why does Google care so much about their users’ experience? Mostly because they still
make the majority of their money from paid ads, and if people have a bad experience when
they search, they won’t come back. So if your goal is to try to figure out a way to deliver the
best experience possible to their surfers, Google will reward you for that.
STEP #2: FIND YOUR DREAM 100 ON THIS PLATFORM
This is where the search engines start to become really fun for me. This process is similar to a
treasure hunt, looking for the keywords and blogs that you can tap into to bring you thousands
of visitors a day, sometimes overnight.
In Secret #2, we talked about two types of congregations. The first was “interest-based”
congregations, such as influencers, brands, and other things that people are interested in. The
second type of congregation we discussed was “search-based” congregations. Instead of
targeting “interests,” we would be targeting keywords and keyword phrases. For Google, we
are going to be building out two Dream 100 lists. One list will be with the top bloggers in your
market, and the second list will be a list of your Dream 100 keywords.
Your Dream 100 (bloggers): As I start looking at Google, before I put in the work of getting
ranked in the search engines, I want to find the people who have already done the work,
gotten ranked, and have readers who currently read their blogs. I will be utilizing these
bloggers and their blogs in different ways, both buying my way into their traffic streams as
well as working my way in. But for now, I just want to identify them and get them on my
Dream 100 list.
Finding them can be as easy as going to Google and typing in your dream keywords and the
word “blog” after it. You’ll then see the top 10 listings in Google and which bloggers have
made it to the top.
Some of the bloggers will have their own blogs that run on their own domain, while others
will use popular blogging networks like Medium.com. You can go to Medium.com (and other
blog networks) and search for bloggers in your market. Make this list and keep it handy, as
we’ll be leveraging these people soon.
Your Dream 100 (keywords): It’s now finally time to dust off your “Dream 100” keywords
that you wrote down in Secret #2 and focus on getting access to all the traffic that is on the
first page in the search engines. Being ranked on page number one for one of your dream
keywords is the equivalent of owning Boardwalk or Park Place in Monopoly. Owning one or
more of these listings in this virtual real estate landscape can fill your funnels with traffic for


--- PAGINA 125 ---

years to come.
Make a list of the keyword phrases that you think your dream customers would be typing
into Google if they were trying to find the result that your product or service offers. When I
first did this exercise with ClickFunnels, the first 10 dream keyword phrases that I wrote
down were:
Sales funnels
Digital marketing
Internet marketing
Online marketing
Landing page
Marketing automation
Growth hacking
Personal branding
Website traffic
Social media marketing
I figured that that my dream customers would be typing each of these phrases into Google
to get the same result that my product could give them, and these became my dream
keywords.
The next step was to find the long-tail keywords associated with each of my dream
keywords. Often it can be really difficult to rank for a high-competition keyword, so I also
wanted to see the long-tail keywords that would be easier to rank at first.
To do this, take your number-one dream keyword phrase and type it into Google. Google will
suggest other keyword phrases in the search bar that people often search for when someone
types in your dream keyword phrase. These are the other suggested phrases under your
search results.
These keywords will become your “long-tail” keyword phrases. Write down your nine long-
tail keyword phrases that are associated with each of your dream keywords that you would
like to target. For example:
Dream Keyword: Sales Funnels
Long-Tail Keywords:
Sales funnels definition
Sales funnels software
Sales funnels for real estate
Sales funnels examples
Sales funnels for artists
Sales funnels templates
Sales funnels explained
Sales funnels 101
Sales funnels for Shopify
You can also scroll down to the bottom of Google after you search for your dream keyword,
and it will show you eight more keywords that are closely related to your search term.


--- PAGINA 126 ---

Figure 12.2: When you type in your dream keyword, Google will suggest other popular, long-tail
keyword phrases (left). After searching for a specific result, Google will also show you related
searches at the bottom of their search results (right).
Keep looking until you find 10 solid keywords phrases to focus on. If you do that with all 10
of your dream keywords, you will end up with a list of 100 keywords.
This is the simplest way to build out your dream keyword list, but there are some amazing
software tools that can help take it to the next level. Many of them will show you how many
searches each keyword gets each month, how competitive it is to try and rank for these
keywords, how much money you will pay per click from the sponsored ads, and more. I have
posted a list of all my favorite keyword tools, as well as tutorial videos for my favorites, at Traf
ficSecrets.com/resources.
STEP #3: IDENTIFY THE PUBLISHING STRATEGY AND CREATE YOUR PUBLISHING PLAN
Now that we have our dream keywords, we want to funnel hack the search engines to see
what is already working for that keyword. To do that, all you have to do is type your keyword
phrase into Google. Then scan the top 10 results and look for patterns of what type of posts
are being ranked. I specifically look for what we call a “linkable asset,” or what I call
internally a “Letterman Top 10 List.”
I call it that because I remember when I was teenager and my parents would sometimes
watch Late Show with David Letterman, and while I didn’t necessary like his show, there was
one segment that I loved, and it was when he would do his famous Top 10 Lists, such as
“Eminem’s Top 10 Pieces of Advice For Kids” or “Top 10 Questions Justin Bieber Would
Answer ‘I Don’t Know.’”38 Then he would list out 10 funny things to go with each list.
A linkable asset works similar to Letterman’s Top 10 Lists. They will usually be structured
with a title like “25 SEO Tools to Instantly Improve Your Marketing in 2020” or “18 Things You
Can Actually Eat on a Ketogenic Diet that You Assumed Were Bad for You.”
These types of linkable assets are what Google loves for a few reasons. The first is that if
you structure them correctly, people will love the content so much that they can’t help but link
back to it. Real, organic, quality links are what Google wants to reward you for, and writing a
good article that people naturally want to link to is the secret to getting the right links. The
second reason is these are the types of posts that readers on Google love. Because Google
owns the Chrome browser and usually has their analytics code on most of your pages, they
can see how long someone stays on your site, how long they scroll for, if they click on your
links, and how many pages they visit inside of your site. The more time someone spends on
your site, the more they scroll, and the more pages they click to are all signs that your end
user is having a good experience. These types of articles with their “21 steps” or “205
resources,” if written correctly, will get people to scroll through your page and spend a lot of
time there, showing its value to Google.


--- PAGINA 127 ---

As I’m scanning the organic results for my dream keywords, I’m looking to see if there are
any Letterman Top 10 List–type articles being ranked. If there aren’t, then I will work on
creating my own linkable asset that I can post on my blog. If I do find one that is already
ranking in the top 10 for my Dream 100, I will use the “skyscraper” technique that I learned
from Brian Dean to build a taller skyscraper and outrank them in the search engines.
The skyscraper technique works after you have found content that has already generated a
ton of links and is already ranking for your dream keywords, and then you model it to create
your own bigger, better piece of content, i.e., a bigger skyscraper. I like to try to create at
least one new skyscraper article per month.
On his blog, Brian describes the skyscraper technique as a way for you to have the content
that everyone wants to talk about (and link to):39
Have you ever walked by a really tall building and said to yourself: Wow, that’s amazing!
I wonder how big the eighth tallest building in the world is. Of course not. It’s human
nature to be attracted to the best. And what you’re doing here is finding the tallest
“skyscraper” in your space . . . and slapping 20 stories to the top of it.
Figure 12.3: To rank for your dream keyword, find an article that is ranked high in Google for that
keyword and write a “taller skyscraper” article that Google will like better.
After you’ve found an article that is ranking for your dream keyword that you want to beat,
the next step is to write a better piece of content. Here are four things that Brian
recommended to do to your article to make your skyscraper taller:
Longer: In some cases, publishing an article that’s simply longer or includes more items
will do the trick. For example, if you find a link magnet with a title of “50 Healthy Snack
Ideas,” publish a list of 150 (or even 500).
More up to date: If you can take an out-of-date piece of content and spruce it up, you’ve
got yourself a winner.
Better designed: A visually stunning piece of content can typically generate a lot more
links and social shares than something similar on an ugly page.
More thorough: Most lists posts are made of a bland list of bullet points without any
meaty content that people can actually use. But if you add a bit of depth for each item on
your list, you have yourself a list post that’s much more valuable.40
Important note: Brian recommends that you beat the existing content on all four levels.
In this longer new skyscraper, I will often use my dream keyword as well as my long-tail
keywords throughout the article. Doing this with just one skyscraper article will often get me
ranked for many, if not all, my related Dream 100 keyword phrases.


--- PAGINA 128 ---

Getting quality links to your skyscraper: Publishing the longer, better skyscraper won’t in
and of itself get your site ranked onto page number one. After you’ve written the article, you
need to promote it, and the way you promote an article is by getting a lot of the right links to
it. Brian taught us to get the right links by looking at the links that are pointing to the linkable
asset that we modeled. If people are already linking to that content, we know a few things.
They have a website in the same niche that we’re publishing.
They’re interested in the topic, because they have already linked to our competitor.
They’ve already linked to an article on that topic, so it’s not difficult for them to include a
link to our longer, better, more updated article too.
You will need to email the people linking to your competitor and ask them to link back to you
as well. You can contact them manually or you can use a shortcut to save you time. Go to Traffi
cSecrets.com/ resources to find some tools that will scrape the contact information from
everyone who is linking to your competitor.
In your email, you can let them know that you saw they linked to your competitor and that
you’d love it if they’d link to your article as well since yours is similar but much more up to
date and comprehensive. This strategy will help you to get the right links. Here’s an example
of an email that Brian sent out to 160 people who were linking to his competitor that got him
great results:
Figure 12.4: After you write your skyscraper article, you can email the website owners of anyone
who has linked to your competitor’s article and let them know you have created a newer, better
article.
Brian said that he personalized and tweaked this template for each person he reached out
to, and out of the 160 emails he sent out, he got 17 people to link back! That’s an 11 percent
success rate following the skyscraper method that helped him to get his article ranked.
The next way I work to get links back to my new article is by reverse engineering (funnel
hacking) the backlinks that are going to the other nine organic listings on page number one
for my dream keyword. I already found the people that are linking to my competitor’s article
and emailed them. I am now going to do the same thing to the people who are linking to the
other nine pages that are ranked on page one. I send out a similar email to each of them
asking if they’d be willing to link back to my linkable asset. By doing this, I am getting the


--- PAGINA 129 ---

same backlinks that are currently ranking the top 10 results for my dream keyword phrase all
linking back to me.
There are lots of other ways to get links, all with varying degrees of what Google likes.
“White hat” techniques are the ones that Google loves and rewards you for, whereas “black
hat” techniques are just spammy ways to get links that trick Google. While you may get short-
term gains with black-hat techniques, every one that I’ve ever used to beat Google has always
caught up with me eventually. We now solely focus on doing what Google wants. I’ll mention
some other ways we get links in the “work your way in” section later, but Brian’s skyscraper
linking technique is one of the best and fastest ways to kick-start your link building.
These manual link requests will get the process started, and then I will stimulate traffic to
the skyscraper pages by promoting my new article on my other social sites (Facebook and
Instagram) and email lists. If you’ve followed the process we’ve discussed, your content will
become a link magnet by organically getting the right types of links and continuing to rise in
the search engines. This type of organic linking is what Google wants and rewards.
Your Publishing Plan
In this chapter, I’ve shown you how I look at marketing on Google. We’ve talked about some of
the core ways to get organic traffic from Google. The following is a publishing plan that you
and your team can use to systemize the ranking process.
Figure 12.5: Use this publishing plan to see at a glance where you should focus your efforts on
Google.
STEP #4: WORK YOUR WAY IN
Working your way into the search engines has two amazing benefits. The first is that you can
tap into the traffic streams of the bloggers that you put on your Dream 100 list earlier. The
second is you can get some of the best quality links directly from these same bloggers who
have quality sites in your market (the type of links that Google loves).
The way I work my way into the search engines is through “guest posting.” That means I am
looking for someone else who has a blog in my market and I am asking if I can make a “guest
post” on their site. I’ll email the blog owners and tell them that I had a few cool ideas for a
post on their blog and ask them if any of them are of interest. If they say yes, then I write up
the post, include a link to one or two of my skyscrapers, and have them post it. I give them
good content, their readers will click on the links and I’ll get traffic from that, the spiders will


--- PAGINA 130 ---

see the links to my skyscraper, and it will increase my rankings from there.
You can also work on becoming a writer or a columnist for high-traffic sites in your market.
Some of the best SEO people I know are writers for Forbes, Entrepreneur, and other top-
ranked sites. They are able to use their positions as writers on the sites to push traffic into
their own funnels and post quality links to rank their skyscrapers.
I try to post at least one guest post per week on blogs in my market, as well as work toward
becoming a contributing author for the sites that bring me the most traffic and quality links.
STEP #5: BUY YOUR WAY IN
When I first started to learn SEO, back before the Google slaps started, I got frustrated that I
wasn’t ranked number one for some of the highly competitive dream keywords that I wanted
to rank for. One day I decided I wanted to be number one for the keyword “internet
marketing.” I set out on a journey to rank organically for that keyword, and after eight long
months I finally ended up getting to page number one! I think I topped out at the number four
spot on page one before I got slapped during one of the algorithm updates.
But about a month into that long journey, I got frustrated and I looked at each of the people
who were already ranked number one for my dream keywords. I started to notice that a lot of
those sites were articles and weren’t actually selling any products. They had some banner ads
on them, but they didn’t have a product like mine to sell.
I started emailing a bunch of them, knowing how hard I was working to try to get that
ranking, wondering why they would put in that much effort to rank when they didn’t have an
actual product to sell. I got emails back from about a half dozen of them, and I found out
something very interesting. Most of them were SEO guys who were really good at ranking
pages but had no idea how to create products. So instead they would get a page ranked on
page one, and then they would either sell ads on their page or link to other products as an
affiliate. As soon as they told me that, I had the big idea.
What if while I was waiting to get my site ranked on page one, I started getting traffic
immediately from all the people who were currently ranked number one? My goal in the short-
term wasn’t to outrank them; it was to get ads for my funnels on their pages.
I started to negotiate deals with them, and within days I was prominently displayed at the
top of some of the sites that were already ranked for my dream keywords. Getting on these
pages turned on a faucet of traffic over night!
I quickly started to realize how much more valuable a click to your funnels is from one of
these pages than even the same from the Google homepage. Just think, a phrase like “internet
marketing” could have thousands of people searching for it per day on Google. However, the
people who do the following three-step process are actually more valuable to you:
1. Type a phrase into Google
2. Click on one of the results
3. Click on the link to your funnel from this other page
Figure 12.6: People who follow this three-step process of searching for your keyword, clicking on
one of the results, clicking on your paid ad inside that result, and landing on your funnel are
more valuable to you because they’re warmer traffic.


--- PAGINA 131 ---

The first click on Google is typically from the “browsers” but the second click comes from
the people who are the most serious: the buyers. Because they’ve made two clicks to get to
you, they are so much more likely to convert when they do get to your page. Tons of the clicks
that hit Google’s homepage will be wasted on people who aren’t serious, and if you’re paying
for these clicks, it can be very expensive. However, the people who have to click two clicks to
get to you are the ones who are most serious and will be worth the most money to you long-
term.
When I look at my Dream 100 websites, I try to quickly weed out the ones that don’t have
any advertising on them already. Instead, I’m looking for sites that have AdSense ads, banner
ads, affiliate links to other products, and email newsletter subscription boxes. Then I start
contacting the owners of these websites to find out my advertising options.
If they have an email newsletter, I ask them if I can purchase a solo ad to their email
list (more on this in Secret #17).
If they have banner ads on their website, I ask them how much it costs to purchase a
banner ad.
If they have Google AdSense on their site, then I add their site to my list to target
later with Google Display Network or GDN (more on this in Secret #9).
If they have an article on that page, then I try to see if I can get them to add a link
back to one of my pages in their article.
Getting your links to your funnels on the pages that are already ranked for your dream
keywords is one of the fastest ways to get super qualified traffic into your funnels.
STEP #6: FILL YOUR FUNNEL
Are you able to see now how you can get access to the traffic that is coming from the search
engines? We focus on creating blog posts that are linkable assets that will act as link magnets
that you can get ranked on page one for your dream keywords. While we’re waiting for these
pages to rise in the search engines, we do guest posting on the blogs in our market to get both
instant traffic from their readers and more links pointing back to our linkable assets.
We then go to the pages that are already ranked on page one for our dream keywords, and
we work to buy ads on these pages so we can plug our funnels into the existing streams of
traffic that are going to these pages.
The last step is buying ads on Google’s paid search platforms. There are two main ways that
you can get paid traffic from Google. The first is the paid ads on the search engine results
pages (the ads that show up above and below the organic results for your dream keywords)
and the second is from AdSense ads that other people have put on their pages. You get access
to these ads through the GDN.
I won’t be showing the actual tactics behind how to run Google Ads as they are always
changing, but the strategy behind how you run Google Ads in Secret #9 is the same. First you
create prospecting ads as hooks to capture your dream customers and pull them into your
funnels. For those that don’t immediately convert, we move them into our retargeting buckets
and move them from engaged, to landed, and then to owned. After we own the traffic, we use
our follow-up funnels to ascend them up our value ladder.


--- PAGINA 132 ---

SECRET #13
YOUTUBE TRAFFIC SECRETS
There is something special about YouTube that I don’t think many people understand. YouTube
is the only platform where you can create something and post it online where it will actually
grow exponentially over time.
When you post a video on Facebook Live, it will show up in the newsfeed of your dream
customers for a few days, and then it’s gone forever. You can extend the life of that video by
paying for ads to boost it, but eventually it will fall to the bottom of your feed, never to be seen
again. And although Facebook Live is like a good talk show for current events, the art you
create has a limited life span. The same is true with Instagram, where eventually your pictures
will fall to the bottom of your feed and your Stories will expire. Some platforms have more
longevity and last longer, but they all perform progressively worse over time.
Every platform, that is, except for YouTube. As soon as artists create videos and post them
on YouTube, their viewership can start to grow and continue to grow forever. I have videos
that I published five years ago that still get hundreds of views a day. Other videos that we
published more recently received an initial viewer surge (we can often get thousands of views
per day simply because it’s a new video), but the numbers of new views continue to rise day
after day. YouTube’s algorithms are built to keep people on YouTube, so they try to
recommend videos that are most likely to keep their viewers engaged as long as possible.
This gives us creators a reason to spend more time producing amazing videos that will serve
us and our audiences for the rest of our lives and beyond. And when you understand a few key
things about how YouTube’s algorithms work, it will help you set up your videos for long-term
success.
Six years ago, I got a call from a guy named Joe Marfoglio, who asked me if he could become
an affiliate for a new product I had just launched. It was a course we had created helping
people to overcome pornography addiction. Excited to get someone else besides myself
driving traffic to our new product, I said yes. He told me that he was going to create a few
videos and post them on YouTube, driving traffic through his affiliate link to our product.
I gave him permission and didn’t think much more about it at the time. Within a few months,
Joe was driving more sales by himself than all my marketing efforts combined. Confused, I
asked him what he was doing, and he told me that he had just posted two videos on YouTube
and that was it. I asked him if I could see the videos and he sent me the links.
One was a short, 2-minute-and-47-second video he had created, and the other was the sales
video that I had created to sell the product. Both these videos were getting thousands of views
a day. As I was writing this chapter, I went back to find these two videos and was shocked to
see that the first video had received 1.2 million views and the longer video had over 815,000
views!


--- PAGINA 133 ---

Figure 13.1: In six years, this video has received over 815,000 views, and because it’s on YouTube,
it gets more views every day.
Despite the fact that we stopped selling that product a few years ago, these videos continue
to drive traffic every day. I had Joe pull the stats, and that month alone, more than six years
after he posted them, the videos had 10,361 views and were able to generate 553 clicks back
to our funnel. That is the power of creating videos with YouTube.
STEP #1: UNDERSTAND THE HISTORY AND THE GOAL
Did you know that YouTube is the world’s second largest search engine (behind Google), and
it’s also the second most trafficked website (also behind Google)?41 Oh, yeah, and in case you
didn’t know, it’s also owned by Google. It was created in 2005 by three PayPal employees
(Chad Hurley, Steve Chen, and Jawed Karim) above a pizzeria in San Mateo, California.42 In
less than two years after YouTube started, Google purchased it for $1.65 billion.
Right now, over 1.9 billion people log into YouTube every month, over 400 hours of video are
uploaded to YouTube every minute, and over one billion hours of videos are watched on
YouTube every day.
YouTube is interesting because it functions similar to a social platform. You create content,
try to get people to engage with that content and build up subscribers just like other social
networks.
YouTube also functions as a search engine, which is why, unlike social networks, your videos
continue to grow over time. If you learn how to optimize your videos the way that YouTube
would like you to, they will reward you by ranking you for your dream keywords inside of
YouTube, and often they’ll even post those videos inside the search results of Google.
STEP #2: FIND YOUR DREAM 100 ON THIS PLATFORM
Six months after we had launched ClickFunnels, we were trying to figure out new ways to get
more people to create accounts. We hadn’t used YouTube yet as a traffic strategy, so I called
up Joe Marfoglio (my friend who ranked the videos for our pornography anti-addiction product
a few years earlier) and asked him if he could help. During our initial call, he got excited and
had me jump on a videoconference where I could see his computer screen. He opened up
YouTube, and I watched as he showed me one of the most powerful marketing tactics I had
ever witnessed.
First, he typed in the names of some of the people who were on my Dream 100 list—people
who we had been targeting on Facebook to see if they were also publishing on YouTube. Many
of them didn’t have YouTube channels, but others had really big channels with hundreds of
thousands of subscribers. As I looked at each of the videos on their channels, Joe said, “You
know you can buy ads that will be shown in front of any of those videos, right? As soon as
anyone goes to watch a video on their channel, the first thing they will see are your ads.”
At the time I had no idea that was possible, and almost instantly my mind wondered about
the possibilities. “Wait, I can buy ads on each of their videos and use it to bring people into my
funnels?”
“Exactly,” Joe said. “You are leveraging their name, their credibility, and their content to
drive people into your funnels.”
He then went to the YouTube search bar and asked me what keywords I thought my dream
customers would be searching for. I asked him to try the keyword “internet marketing,” and
within a few seconds I saw dozens of videos that were already ranked for that term. Joe
explained how we could easily create videos and get them ranked for these dream keywords,
just like we did for the pornography anti-addiction video. Joe said, “We can put in the work
once, and these videos will serve you for the rest of your life. Heck, they’ll keep driving traffic
to your funnels even after you’re dead!”
Laughing, I asked him, “While we’re waiting for these videos to get ranked at the top, could
I buy ads on all the other videos now?” He smiled and politely told me yes.
Within just a few minutes, I started to see why I was going to love YouTube so much. After I
got off that call, I immediately did exactly what I’m going to tell you to do now. You need to
build out two Dream 100 lists: one list with the names of the people, brands, and influencers
that you would like to target, and a second list with the keyword phrases that you would like
to create videos for. I’ll go into more detail on how we find the right keywords in the
publishing section later in this chapter.


--- PAGINA 134 ---

STEP #3: IDENTIFY THE PUBLISHING STRATEGY AND CREATE YOUR PUBLISHING PLAN
Just like Google, YouTube has an algorithm that decides which videos to rank to increase their
users’ experience. To prevent people from ranking videos that ruin the experience for end
users, the algorithm is constantly being updated and changed. The way to win at YouTube is to
figure out ways to create and post videos that are in alignment with how they want videos to
be posted. That’s why it’s so important to closely watch your Dream 100 and see what things
they’re doing that YouTube is rewarding them for. If they change how they like descriptions,
tags, or linking, you’ll see the changes in the videos that are getting a lot of views, and then
you can change your strategy to match theirs. Most of the things that I will be showing you in
this publishing section are things that I learned from Joe Marfoglio as he’s consulted us at
ClickFunnels with our YouTube strategy.
Set Up Your Channel
Before we start creating any videos, we need to make sure the channel is set up so that when
potential subscribers come, they’ll turn into actual subscribers.
Name of your channel: For your channel name, you should focus more on branding than
keywords. Your channel name will show up everywhere in searches, suggested searches,
related channel suggestions, and on your videos when you leave comments. You want people
to be able to see your name and brand and get a sense of what your channel is about. You’ll
notice that my channel name is Russell Brunson—ClickFunnels. I do this because I want
people to recognize my name as well as my main brand when they see my channel name come
up.
“About Us” page: This page is important for two reasons. First, it lets people know more
about you when they’re checking you out before they subscribe. Second, the information you
write here will show up in the search results for your channel and will be a big key to people
finding and subscribing to your channel.
Header image: When people come to your channel page, the first thing they’ll see is your
header. Your header should be simple and speak clearly to your target audience so that they
know the value they’ll get from your channel. Those who see mine will know quickly what I do
and how I can help them.
Figure 13.2: When people see your YouTube channel, you want them to immediately know who
you are and what you’re about.
Profile image: Many people mistakenly put their logos here. Instead, use a picture of yourself
because it will dramatically increase engagement.
Channel trailer and description: When people first come to your channel page, they’ll see
an actual trailer for your channel as well as a brief description about your channel. It is only
shown to new visitors who aren’t subscribers yet, so this video is speaking specifically to
them.
Here are Joe’s script guidelines for an engaging channel trailer:


--- PAGINA 135 ---

Introduce yourself and welcome your viewer to your channel. You want the viewer to
feel like you are talking to them and that you understand them.
Go briefly into your backstory and explain why you have the authority to be creating the
content you make on YouTube.
Pitch your value statement. Leave no doubt in your viewer’s mind what this channel is
about. Talk about the channel, what it is about, and why it matters.
Share your posting schedule so they know when to expect new content.
End the video with a really strong CTA. This means you need to tell the viewer what you
want them to do. Tell them to subscribe to your channel and turn on notifications so they
don’t miss any of your new videos.
Make sure this video is no more than 60–120 seconds long. Any longer than that and you
will lose your potential viewer.
Figure 13.3: Create a short channel trailer by following this simple script: introduction,
backstory, value statement, posting schedule, and CTA.
When shooting this video, don’t get overwhelmed or bogged down with details about the
camera and the equipment. If you’re just starting out, you don’t need to buy anything fancy. I
still use my iPhone for the majority of my videos.
Identify Your Dream Keywords that You Want to Make Videos For
The first step is to find all the long-tail keywords around your dream keyword that you can
make videos for. If you have a brand-new channel and try to rank for a keyword like “how to
make money online,” it’s going to be extremely difficult to outrank some of the bigger
channels. But Joe has a strategy that has proven successful in the past to get you tons of
views, traction, and subscribers:
This is a tactic I learned from my good friend Jeremy Vest. He calls this tactic “finding
your channel’s focus phrase.” You can think of it like trying to find your channel’s “how to
shave.” What does that mean? A lot of you have probably seen a video or heard about the
Dollar Shave Club. They made an incredible video that went viral everywhere on
Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube with millions upon millions of views, and that launched
their company into the stratosphere. But did you know another razor company was
dominating YouTube and raking in millions of views from their hyper-targeted market and
they did it without any viral or hype videos?
That company was Gillette. What they found was that the most influential keyword in
their space was “how to shave.” They centered their channel around that keyword. Now, if
Gillette just wanted to rank for “how to shave,” they wouldn’t get a ton of traction. It


--- PAGINA 136 ---

would have been really hard, right out of the gate, to rank for that keyword. Instead, they
took “how to shave” as the root keyword. Then, they looked through suggested search
terms and added words to the back of it. Gillette created hundreds of videos with that root
keyword, such as, “how to shave your head,” “how to shave your back,” “how to shave
your beard,” “how to shave your legs,” and so on. Gillette made video after video with the
root word “how to shave.” These videos have collectively received millions of views across
their channel.
The dream keyword “ABC Hack”: Here’s a trick to find hundreds of keywords you can
choose from. If my root keyword is fairly broad, like “how to make money,” you can type in the
same words in the YouTube search bar followed by a space and the letter a.
The suggested search results will show you: “How to make money . . .”
As a beginner
As a kid
At home
At school
Then you can replace the a with b, and the suggested search results will show you: “How to
make money . . .”
Blogging
By investing
By posting ads
Then move on to c and d and so on. You will want to get at least 50 of these “how to make
money” keywords to use as keyword titles in your videos.
Create Your First Video
Now that you’ve done all the research, set up your channel, and made a list of keywords to
target, now it’s time to start creating videos. As I’m creating videos, there are two types of
video that I focus on.
The first are called “discoverable videos.” These are videos based on keyword phrases that I
publish as hooks to rank for these keywords with a goal of grabbing people’s attention, pulling
them into my channel, and turning them into subscribers. How you structure these videos is
very important because if one of them takes off and gets 100K views, you want to be able to
make sure that you are able to create subscribers and leads from all of these viewers.
Here is the script that Joe created that I use for every discoverable video we create:
Figure 13.4: To create a discoverable video, simply follow this five-step script outline: hook,


--- PAGINA 137 ---

trailer, intro, story/content, and offer.
Hook: Create a 15-second concise introduction. This is where you’re going to hook
people using the same keywords that they’re searching for. You’ll tell them the value of
your video and present a hook for them to look forward to so they continue watching.
Trailer: Place your quick branded intro or “trailer,” which should be no more than four to
five seconds maximum. Do not put a 30- or 60-second branded intro here. You’ll lose the
majority of your viewers right there.
Intro: Talk to your viewer about who you are and why they should listen to you for the
next 15–30 seconds. Share a little bit about your story so that you make a connection
with that new visitor. Don’t assume that they know who you are.
Story/Content: Share content and story for the next 7 to 12 minutes. Here is where you
deliver the value from the hook you mentioned earlier.
Offer: Add your CTA. As a discoverable video, the offer will normally be to get people to
like, comment, subscribe, or turn on the notifications.
Use this show formula as an outline to write out your video script. Once you have an outline
and a tight script, take out your cell phone or camera, look right into the lens, and film
yourself recording that video. The goal of these videos is to hook people who are searching
and direct them back to your “home” to become subscribers. Typically, I’m not selling on these
videos, outside of selling the subscription to my channel.
The second type of video I create is called “video webinars,” which are usually less keyword
focused, as they are created to build a stronger relationship with my current subscribers.
These videos are the ones that I’m posting for my existing followers, at my home. These are
the videos that I use to sell things. I’ll still try to find keywords to rank them for, but
oftentimes I am trying to create or teach something that may not fit inside of a certain
keyword phrase. I use the Perfect Webinar script, or the Perfect Webinar Hack, or the Perfect
Five-Minute Webinar (all from Expert Secrets, and you can print the scripts at TrafficSecrets.c
om/resources) with a goal of moving them from traffic that I’ve earned into traffic that I own.
Figure 13.5: To create a video webinar, you can still follow the five-step script from earlier, but
instead of asking your subscribers to like, comment, or subscribe, you’ll encourage them to get a
lead magnet.
Upload Your Video and Set It Live
After I’ve created the video, there are six things that we currently do for each video we upload
to make sure we’re aligned with YouTube’s algorithm.
Look at YouTube as a TV show: YouTube very much sees itself like a TV station. Unlike
Facebook Live where you can go live anytime you want, YouTube wants you to create a show,
schedule it, and publish it on a consistent schedule. For example, you may publish your videos
every Thursday at 7:00 P.M. EST, or every Tuesday and Thursday at 7:00 A.M. EST. Create a
schedule for yourself that you know you can keep up with, and be consistent as you stick to
that publishing schedule.
Find the keyword for your new video: Make sure you have identified the keyword phrases
you want to use for your new video. Earlier we walked you through how to find these phrases,
and now we’re ready to use them.
Write your video title: Your title should have two elements: it must contain your keyword
phrase, and it also needs a strong hook that works in tandem with your thumbnail to “sell the
click.” For example, if I were trying to create a video that would rank for “potato gun,” some


--- PAGINA 138 ---

possible titles might be:
“Potato Gun—The 17 steps to build your gun in under an hour”
or
“How to build your Potato Gun with stuff you can find at Home Depot for under $30”
Create your thumbnail “hook”: This is the visual hook that will grab people when they’re
watching someone else’s video to convince them to watch your video next. Make sure it looks
good when it’s shrunken down tiny. The best practices that usually get the most clicks are
using large faces/images, bright colors, and as few words as possible. It needs to pop off the
page. Look at your Dream 100’s video thumbnails to get an idea of how they’re grabbing
attention with their thumbnails.
Figure 13.6: When creating thumbnails, be sure to have clear hooks with an image of your face to
get more clicks.
Write your description: Ideally, these will be between 150–300 words. The first two
sentences should contain your keyword and CTA because this portion is “above the fold,” i.e.,
the portion that everyone sees before they scroll down. You will also want to add your
subscribe link and a link to your front-end funnels, as well as links to other related videos and
playlists you have on YouTube. To optimize your search results, I recommend adding up to
three hashtags.
Add tags: While still helpful for search ranking, tags mean less than they used to. Keep your
tags highly relevant to your main keyword: the more closely related to the topic, the better. If
you branch out, you’ll only confuse the algorithm.
Figure 13.7: Just as important as the video itself is the content about the video, such as the
keywords, title, description, and tags.
Those are the core things that we’re looking at when posting each video. Again, these specific
things may change, so that’s why it’s so essential to closely watch your Dream 100 to see what
things are being rewarded in YouTube and then make changes as needed.
After your video is posted, you want to get people watching it as soon as possible. I’ll usually
encourage the traffic that I own, such as my email lists, fans, and followers, to watch the new


--- PAGINA 139 ---

video. Because these are your best fans, they’ll likely watch more of the video, like more,
comment more, and share more—all those things that will show the algorithm that your video
is good. After your initial surge of traffic to the video, YouTube will start posting it in the side
bar of videos that are related, and they will often rank it for the keywords that you are
targeting.
YouTube’s algorithm will then watch and see how your video performs. The better it does,
the more they’ll reward it. Here are the three things we’ve noticed that have the biggest
impact on your video’s success:
Click-Through Rate (CTR): How many people who see your thumbnail actually click
on it? The benchmarks we want for CTR are:
4 percent—Acceptable
6 percent—Good
9 percent—We should throw a party!
Initial retention: The first minute of retention is very important. You need to hook
people fast and keep them watching. Watch the videos from your Dream 100 to get ideas
on how they hook people past the first minute. Try to keep minute one retention above 70
percent.
Overall retention: As for your overall video retention, how long is the actual video
being watched? We look at how many people make it to the end of the video. The
benchmarks for video retention are:
35 percent—Acceptable
40 percent—Good
50 percent—Party time! (You’ll get a lot more reach if your account averages this or
better)
The “Binge-Watching”YouTube Hack
One of the best things you can do for your channel is to get people to binge-watch your videos.
When YouTube sees people going from one video in your channel to another, and another, not
only will it boost your views on those videos, it will lift the entire channel.
One secret is instead of putting up a longer, 30- or 60-plus minute video, create a YouTube
playlist and break up your long videos into smaller 5–10 minute videos that are part of a series
inside of that playlist. Then when someone watches the first video on the playlist, it
automatically directs them to video two in the series, and when that video ends, it directs
them into video three, and so on. This gets people watching a half dozen or more videos on
your channel in a row and boosts all your rankings across your channel!
It’s very simple to set up a playlist in YouTube, add your videos, and promote the new
“series” to the traffic you own. Think of the ripple effect that promoting a new playlist to
binge-watch will create.
It’s a huge value add to your own list and will build a better relationship with your
viewers.
It gets your hottest subscribers watching your newest videos, which should give you
higher initial and overall retention than a cold viewer who finds you on YouTube.
You’re likely to get more likes and comments from these viewers, especially if you ask
them to engage in these ways in the emails and messages you send to them promoting
this new series.
Most of them will move through each video in the playlist because they’re excited to see
your new series, which will make these videos rank higher, which will also boost your
entire channel.
This becomes such a big win-win-win for you, your viewers, and YouTube that we try to build
launching a new playlist that viewers can binge-watch into our publishing plan at least once
per month.
Your Publishing Plan
In this chapter, you’ve seen how you can create videos on YouTube that will rank for your


--- PAGINA 140 ---

dream keywords on both Google and YouTube. Each week you should be launching new
discoverable videos to target your dream keywords, and each month launching a playlist
where you can teach your subscribers, boost your rankings, and give them something
awesome to watch. I’m including a YouTube publishing plan so you can see how to weave it
into your daily and weekly processes.
Figure 13.8: Use this publishing plan to see, at a glance, where you should focus your efforts on
YouTube.
STEP #4: WORK YOUR WAY IN
The core way we work our way in to YouTube is by following the publishing plan we just laid
out. Every day, we’re picking new keywords we want to rank for, and then we go and create
videos to target these keywords. If you are consistent in publishing these videos, you will
continue to show up in the search results for more keyword phrases, more people will
subscribe to your channel, and your videos will keep growing.
Similar to Instagram, you can also do collabs with other channels where you can make a
video with another influencer and have them post it to their channel with links pointing back
to you. Sometimes we will do a swap with collabs where I will post a video on my channel
linking to them, and then they will post one linking back to us, but it doesn’t always have to be
a one-for-one swap. Often, I’ll have someone post a video for me on their channel in exchange
for featuring them on my podcast. That way they get exposure on my primary show, and I get
exposure on theirs. There are lots of ways to make collabs work; you just need to be creative
and figure out how to make it a win-win for both of you.
STEP #5: BUY YOUR WAY IN
One of my favorite YouTube shortcuts is to find videos that are getting a lot of views, but
where the creators of the videos don’t really understand how to make money from their views.
For example, a few years ago I purchased a website called Vygone.com. I went on YouTube
and found that there was a customer who had bought the product and had made a video using
it. At the time, the video was getting hundreds of views per day, yet there were no links or a
description or anything.
I called her up and asked her if I could pay her to put a link in the description back to my
new website. She agreed, and almost five years later, this video still sends me hundreds of
clicks each month.

