# CHUNK 3 (Paginas 41-60)


--- PAGINA 41 ---

Natalie mentioned she had worked with the doctor to create an online program that anyone
could do from home with simple exercises to strengthen their abs, core, and pelvic floor.
Together, Natalie and the doctor made an e-book that also came with bonuses like diet and
nutrition tips, exercises and movements, and specific training programs. They wanted to make
this offer for all the moms who had struggled with accidental leaks after having babies, but
didn’t have the ability to meet with the doctor in person. Instead, you could get the same
advice without ever leaving the comfort of your home. And you could get the e-book and all of
the bonuses mentioned for just $47.
Excited, Jessica jumped off the couch and ran across the room to find her credit card. After
typing in her credit card numbers, within minutes, she had access to the e-book that would
solve her problem forever.
Even though Jessica’s story is fictional, this type of experience does happen each and every
day to women who are embarrassed when they accidentally pee their pants a little bit when
they cough, sneeze, or even jump on a trampoline. Over the past three years, over 120,000
women have purchased Natalie’s e-book. This has made Natalie Hodson a household name,
given her the ability to change the lives of countless women around the world, and made her
very wealthy in the process.
The framework that Natalie used to get over 120,000 people to buy her book Abs, Core, and
Pelvic Floor is called Hook, Story, Offer.
The hook is the image and the headline that Jessica saw as she was scrolling through her
feed. It hooked her and stopped her just long enough to get her attention. It then asked
Jessica to click on a link, which gave Natalie a moment to tell her story, build a relationship
with Jessica, and explain the perceived value of the offer she would be making. Finally, Natalie
made her an irresistible offer that would help Jessica to get out of pain and move toward
pleasure. This Hook, Story, Offer framework is the pattern that you’ll see over and over again
in most ads and funnels online.
HOOK, STORY, OFFER
This framework of Hook, Story, Offer is something I talk about often. It’s the core foundation
for how we sell anything online. It’s how we diagnose what’s not working in every funnel that
we set up. If an ad isn’t working, it’s always because of the hook, the story, or the offer. If a
funnel isn’t converting, it’s always because of the hook, the story, or the offer. It really is that
simple and probably the most important framework that I am teaching you to master.
In DotCom Secrets and Expert Secrets, I spend multiple chapters talking about Hook, Story,
and Offer, where I fully explain how to make irresistible offers and the frameworks we use for
story selling. I will be talking about Story and Offer in this chapter in relation to traffic and
ads, but Expert Secrets is the definitive guide for mastering these concepts. With that said,
let’s jump into the Hook, Story, Offer framework.
Hook: Now that we know exactly where our dream customers are congregating, our job is to
throw hooks to them to see if we can grab their attention. In the next secret we’ll be talking
more about how to do that, but for right now, I want you to understand what a hook is.
The hook is the thing that grabs someone’s attention so you can tell them a story. You see
thousands of hooks every day. Every email subject line is a hook, trying to grab your attention
for just a moment so you’ll read that email. Every post, picture, and video you see in your feed
on Facebook is a hook that is trying to get you to engage so they can tell you a story and then
make you an offer. Every picture on Instagram, thumbnail on YouTube, and headline on a blog
is a hook designed to grab your attention. We see hooks all the time, yet it’s hard to define
exactly what they are. Are they words? Yes, they can be. Are they images? Yes, they can be.
Are they the backgrounds of your videos? Or the goofy things you do in the first three seconds
to get someone to stop scrolling? The answer is yes. Anything that grabs someone’s attention
is a hook, and the better you get at creating it and throwing it into your Dream 100’s
congregations, the more attention you will get.
I always picture my end customer sitting on the toilet or lying in bed, or sitting on the couch
in the moments of their day that they are alone, holding their phone, scrolling through their
feed on Facebook or Instagram. What hooks can I throw out that will cause them to stop
scrolling and listen long enough to hear my story? Pay attention the next time you’re scrolling
to what hooks grab your attention. Why did you stop? Why did you click play? What did the
hook say, and how did it make you feel? Answering these questions will help you to become
amazing at developing hooks.
Story: After the hook grabs their attention, you now have a small window to connect with


--- PAGINA 42 ---

them through story. There are two core goals from that story that you are about to tell them.
The story will increase the value of the offer that you are about to make. By telling the
right story (or “epiphany bridge” stories, mentioned in Expert Secrets), you can show the
perceived value of what you’re selling and the story will create a desire for them to buy
now.
The story will build a connection with you as the Attractive Character and your brand.
Even if someone doesn’t buy something today, if they connect with you, they will become
your follower, and then your customer, and eventually your raving fan. Your stories will
help them to build a relationship with your brand.
Your personality (or “your Attractive Character,” mentioned in DotCom Secrets) is becoming
more and more vital to the success of your traffic campaigns. Anyone can throw up an ad and
get someone to buy once, but if you are willing to share your stories, build a connection with
your audience, and actually serve them instead of only selling them something, they will
continue to buy from you over and over again. They will become your advocates and share
your message and your ads with their friends.
Offer: The hook gets your customers’ attention, the story creates desire, and the last step of
every message, post, email, and video is the offer. The offer doesn’t always mean asking
people to buy something amazing, although this is my favorite type of offer. The offer could be
as small as telling them if they “like this post” or “comment on my video” or “subscribe to my
podcast” or “join my list,” you’ll give them a special thing in exchange. The better the offer is,
the more likely someone is to do the thing that you actually want them to do.
If people aren’t doing what you want them to do (joining your list, clicking your ads, or
buying your stuff), the simplest way to fix it is often to increase the offer. For example, if I tell
you that I’ll give you $1.00 if you take out the trash, you may say no, because that effort isn’t
worth $1.00 to you. But if I increase the offer and tell you $10, you may say yes. If I increase
the offer to $1,000, that offer would be too good for almost anyone to say no.
The same thing is true with your ads. If you hook someone, tell them a story, and make them
an offer and they still don’t buy, it’s likely that the offer isn’t good enough for them. You may
need to tell a better story to increase the perceived value of the offer, or maybe you may need
to make a better offer. Add more bonuses, increase how much they get, make it sexier—
whatever they need for the offer to be irresistible.
Figure 3.2: Every page of your funnel needs a hook, a story, and an offer.
Yes, each ad has a hook (the image or video or headline that gets people to stop scrolling), a
story (the thing that you show after you have people’s attention) and an offer (typically, what
they are going to get if they click the ad). If you can show customers what’s in it for them, you
will have success utilizing the strategies taught inside of Traffic Secrets.
If any of your traffic campaigns aren’t working, it’s always the hook, the story, or the offer. If
the conversion on your landing page isn’t working, it’s always the hook, the story, or the offer.
If the attendance to your webinar, the close rate on your pitch, your upsell take rate, or your
email open rate is not working, it’s always the hook, the story, or the offer. And if you want to
solve all these problems, create better hooks, tell better stories, and make better offers.


--- PAGINA 43 ---

SECRET #4
WORK YOUR WAY IN, BUY YOUR WAY IN
It was just weeks before we were going to “officially” launch ClickFunnels.com to the world.
For the past 12 months, my cofounder Todd Dickerson had spent almost every waking moment
painstakingly writing tens of thousands of lines of code. I had spent every last penny I had
earned trying to keep the doors of my little company open so we could feed our families, all
the while waiting for the launch of our new company that we believed would change the
world. It was almost go time.
With one month left, Todd and our other cofounder, Dylan Jones, flew to Boise to grind out
the last 10 percent of the code before we went live. Fueled by Red Bulls and a fire to see their
baby come to life, they would code each night until 3:00 or 4:00 A.M., go back to their hotels
for a short nap, then be back to the office by 9:00 A.M. These were the days that I would never
forget.
As the “nontechnical” cofounder who had no skills in code, I wasn’t able to help during these
hack-a-thons, but I knew my role. When the cart opened on launch day, I needed to have a
pipeline of people waiting and begging to sign up for their free trials. So while Todd and Dylan
were coding, I was working on the Dream 100. For every platform, I would research and find
the people who already had my dream customers, add them to my list, and send them
messages to introduce myself. My Dream 100 list grew into my Dream 200, then my Dream
500. By the time ClickFunnels was ready to go live, it had become my Dream 736. I remember
looking at that list the day before the launch, thinking that these people had already
congregated my dream customers and already had relationships with them. I just had to figure
out ways to get my message in front of these audiences.
Looking back, just five years since that moment, it’s amazing to see how far we’ve come in
such a short period of time. This morning, as I’m writing this chapter, we just passed 100,648
active, monthly paying customers using ClickFunnels. The majority of those members, my
dream customers, came from the followings of the 736 people that I identified as my Dream
100.
Now, if you skipped the exercise in Secret #2, please stop here to go back and do it. It’s the
key to filling your funnels with traffic. Remember, if you hired me for a $100,000 consulting
day, this is the very first thing I would have you do. If you need help doing it, pretend you just
wired me $100,000 and then go and do it. The reason I emphasize this so much is because I’ve
seen the companies that make eight and nine figures a year complete this vital step.
STEP #1—DIG YOUR WELL BEFORE YOU’RE THIRSTY
Now you have your Dream 100, and they have your dream customers. The next question you
should be asking yourself is the same question I asked myself: “How do I get my message in
front of their audiences?”
The first key to the Dream 100 is that you need to dig your well before you’re thirsty. In his
networking book, Dig Your Well Before You’re Thirsty, Harvey Mackay explains that if you
want to build a business relationship with someone that’s worthwhile, you have to start it
before you’re ready to make the deal.9
The most common mistake that entrepreneurs make when they start their Dream 100 is to
wait to start building relationships with those people until their product is ready. As soon as I
identify someone as being part of my Dream 100, I immediately start digging my well. I
personally do this in a few ways.
First, I subscribe to everything that my Dream 100 are publishing. If they’re on your Dream
100, they probably publish on at least one, if not many, different platforms. I’ll listen to their
podcast, read their blog, watch their stories on Instagram, and join their email newsletter
because there will likely be a time in the near future that I’ll have the chance to actually speak
to them. I’ve met people in the past who have somehow made it through all of my gatekeepers
and got a precious few minutes of my time, and I’ve figured out within seconds that they
didn’t know who I was and only cared about what they thought I could do for them. These


--- PAGINA 44 ---

conversations never turned into anything fruitful for either of us. To avoid that situation, do
your homework so that when your moment comes with your Dream 100 person, you’re
prepared to talk about them. Ask them questions about their life, things they post, and topics
they care about.
I also watch what my Dream 100 are publishing because, in the future, I might be creating
ads for these same people. If I know the things that an individual member of my Dream 100
are saying to their followers, I can model the same language patterns in my messages.
Usually, when I tell people to subscribe to everything, they kind of freak out because they
don’t want to join over 100 people’s email lists, subscribe to over 100 podcasts, or follow over
100 influencers on Instagram. After all, it would take several hours a day to manage that,
right? But the truth is it actually won’t.
For the email newsletters, I create a new email address that is set up specifically for my
Dream 100 campaign, and I use that new email address to join everyone’s list. I make a filter
that pushes each person’s emails instantly into a folder so my inbox stays clean. That way,
when I’m about to call or message a certain person, I can log into that email account, click on
their folder, and quickly look at the last dozen or so emails and catch up on what they are
publishing.
I also only use my social apps (YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, etc.) for two purposes: to
produce and publish content, and to spy on my Dream 100. I don’t use them to be “social,”
because this is the fastest way to ruin your life. Okay, not really, but seriously . . . from this
point forward, you should never look at yourself as a “consumer” of social media but as a
“producer” of it. You produce content and you pay close attention to what your Dream 100 is
doing on each of those platforms. That’s it. Personally, I spend about 15 minutes twice a day
quickly swiping through each app to keep my finger on the pulse of my market, and then I
close my phone down and get back to producing.
After subscribing to my Dream 100’s content, I try to buy some of their products. This allows
me to see their funnels and what they’re selling on their backend and get a good idea of what
they are doing. We call this process “funnel hacking,” where you go through their sales
process to get ideas of what is working in this market as well as being able to get on their
customer lists to see what types of things they send to their customers. When you’re a
customer, you can tell them why you love their products. Few things build rapport better and
faster than being able to tell someone that you’re a happy customer.
The third and last thing I do is look for ways that I can serve my Dream 100. Remember,
right now I’m not asking them to do anything for me. I’m digging my well before I’m thirsty to
see what I can offer them. One of the best things I can do to help someone after buying their
product or listening to their podcast or reading their blog is to talk about it socially. I may
make a post on my Facebook wall or on my Instagram stories talking about an awesome
podcast I heard or product I bought, telling other people that they should go buy it while
tagging my Dream 100 person in the post. I’ve found that this is one of the easiest things I do
to get someone’s attention and provide value to them, but it could be anything from sending
them a gift to creating videos or images that they could use for their own marketing.
This process may seem like a lot of work—and it is—but it’s the foundation for your entire
company. Not only is it the foundation for getting traffic, it’s also the best way to figure out
your place in the market’s ecosystem. What value do you have that you can provide to this
market that is different? What problems are being unsolved by the others in your Dream 100
that you are uniquely qualified to do? Seeing what your Dream 100 is promising and trying to
sell to your dream customers, what hooks they are putting out, what offers they are making,
and what beliefs your market has, will become the best market research you could ever do to
figure out what the gaps are in the market and what offers you need to create.
As discussed, when we launched ClickFunnels, I had built a very large Dream 100 list. My
first goal was to dig my well before I was thirsty, which is a key step to do before you “work
your way in.” I started doing this through four very strategic phases:
Phase #1 (Day 1–14): I started the process of following my Dream 100 by subscribing and
listening to the content they were pushing out. During my twice-a-day, 15-minute social media
binges, I would watch what each of my Dream 100 were doing, and then I would look for
things that resonated with me. I would quickly comment on what they were publishing,
sharing what I thought was special, and looking for ways I could serve them.
Phase #2 (Day 15–30): I would then contact my Dream 100 (via email, direct message, etc.)
and open up a dialogue. My goal was never to pitch them anything during this time.
Currently, I conservatively get over 1,000 messages a day among all my social platforms,
and there are some huge red flags that keep me from responding to people, as well as a few


--- PAGINA 45 ---

green lights that give me an open door where I’ll actually respond.
Red Flag #1: Don’t send a templated message. So many times I see the copy/paste
emails that have been sent to 500 other “influencers” that day, and these messages don’t
get a response. Write each person a personal message or don’t send anything at all.
Red Flag #2: Don’t tell me your story yet. There will be a day and time that your
Dream 100 will care about your story, but it’s not with the first message. You telling them
your story is them serving you, and you have not built up the reciprocity yet. Serve first,
or they will never have a chance to serve you later.
Pretend like you are trying to date your Dream 100, because you kind of are. Treat them
right, and one good relationship can be worth millions of dollars to you. But now that you’ve
seen the red flags, let’s talk about some of the green lights that make me want to respond.
Green Light #1: This isn’t the first time I’ve ever seen your face. Most of your
Dream 100 spend time publishing things they believe in, and if you don’t think they read
the comments on the things they publish, you’re wrong. Make sure that they’ve seen your
face actively participating in meaningful ways in the discussions they create, so when
they see you pop in their inbox or as a direct message, they recognize you. During this
phase you are selling you to the Dream 100, not your product. If they don’t like you,
they’ll never want to know more about your product.
Green Light #2: They tell me how great I am. I know that sounds shallow, but come
on, there’s a reason we’re doing this. I personally feel very uncomfortable when people
give me direct praise, especially in front of people, but I love reading it in comments or
messages, and I remember the people who tell me how what I’m doing has impacted
them.
Green Light #3: They’ve done their homework. They know who I am and what I care
about, so when we do talk, they ask me about stuff that’s important to me. When people
ask me about my wife or kids or wrestling or things that I’m really passionate about, I
relate to them differently and I remember who they are.
Green Light #4: They don’t ask for anything now. Just don’t do it. Trust me. If you
ask too early, the answer will always be no. There will be a time, but that time is not now.
Phase #3 (Day 31–60): Make your Dream 100 your fan. I never ask someone to promote
something for me if they haven’t experienced it. When we were launching ClickFunnels, I gave
my Dream 100 free accounts, no strings attached, so they could use the product. When I was
launching my books, I sent free copies. With my courses, I provided free access. Your best
promoters will always be your biggest fans.
After I have plugged into each person in my Dream 100 and started the process of digging
my well before I’m thirsty, there are now two ways that I can get my message in front of my
Dream 100’s audiences. First, I can “work my way in” by getting traffic that I earn. Second, I
can “buy my way in” by getting traffic that I control. Let me show you how each of these work.
Figure 4.1: You can get traffic from your Dream 100 by working your way in and/or buying your
way in.
STEP #2—WORK YOUR WAY IN (TRAFFIC THAT YOU EARN)
I want you to think about the last big blockbuster movie that you were excited to see. Usually,


--- PAGINA 46 ---

it starts with a movie trailer getting leaked online. From there, they start showing that trailer
before all the other movies leading up to the premiere. With all that marketing, I think that
most of us consumers are aware it’s happening. But then, usually about a week out from the
big day, the covert marketing strategy that pushes everyone to watch the new movie on
opening night begins. Hollywood knows that if they don’t fill the theaters on launch day, then
the sales for the life of the movie will suffer, so they pull out the big guns.
What is Hollywood’s covert strategy? Well, it’s simply working their way into the Dream 100
just like you do. Their strategy looks a little like this:
Figure 4.2: To launch a movie in Hollywood, the actors and actresses show up on various TV
shows to promote their movie.
Do you notice, what usually happens one week before a new movie or TV series premiere,
music album, or book launch? Where do the lead actors, singers, or authors show up? They
show up on TV! They put out a hook to grab curiosity, tell a story to create desire, and make
an offer to get people out on opening night! That’s it! They have their Dream 100, and they’re
working their way in.
I was talking to Tony Robbins after his last book launch, and he said that between TV, radio,
and the internet, he did over 260 interviews during the week he launched his book. While I’m
sure that week was intense for him, it helped him sell millions of copies of his books for free
by allowing him to work his way into the shows that had already congregated his dream
customers!
Now, while it’s easy for Hollywood to get booked on the daily talk shows, oftentimes it’s
harder for smaller entrepreneurs like us. The good news is that you can utilize your Dream
100 in a way that is as powerful as (and sometimes even more powerful than) being on the
big, nationally syndicated shows. These shows have a ton of people, but there is no targeting
at all. By using your Dream 100, you’re able to have your interviews shown to the exact target
market who is likely to buy your product or service.
Figure 4.3: You can work your way in to your Dream 100 by appearing on their own shows.
When I launched DotCom Secrets, I knew that I was going to spend a lot of money on paid
ads (i.e., buy my way into the Dream 100), but I also wanted to get as much free initial traffic
as possible. I started by sending a pre-release copy of my book to everyone on my Dream 100,


--- PAGINA 47 ---

including dozens of podcasters, bloggers, email list owners, and influencers. I wanted them to
read the book, and if they liked it, I hoped they would promote it to their followings. A few
days later, I sent them a certified letter in the mail (I could have sent an email, but I wanted to
make sure I got their attention) telling them that if they liked the book, I would love to have
them help promote the book on the launch date. I’d even be willing to pay them $20 for every
book they sold!
Almost instantly, I started getting responses from people on my Dream 100 list who had now
read my book and wanted to help me promote it on launch day! As I mentioned previously, one
of the first to respond was John Lee Dumas from the Entrepreneur on Fire podcast! He said he
loved the book and would love to do an interview with me about the book and have it go live
on my launch day. We recorded an interview in the weeks leading up to our launch, and on our
book launch date, his podcast also went live. From that one interview alone, we sold more
than 500 copies of my new book! And that result was from just one of my Dream 100! We
ended up getting dozens more people to help promote the book on their various platforms. On
opening week, we sold tens of thousands of copies, and that book continues to be a bestseller
to this day.
When we launched Expert Secrets, I wanted to take that same strategy to the next level. We
took our Dream 100, and as soon as I had a cover designed for the book, I sent them a copy of
the book with 300 blank pages inside. I hadn’t started writing it yet, but I wanted them to be
aware that I was writing another book. As I got closer to my launch date, I sent them a copy of
the book with the first four chapters in it (to help get them excited), and as soon as I had the
first, unedited draft, I sent them another copy. They had a chance to see me create this book
with them, and because of that, many of them had a vested interest in its success.
We decided about a month before launch to coordinate a “virtual book tour” just like the
bigwigs in Hollywood would do if they were about to launch a new movie. I asked each of the
Dream 100 if they would interview me on their platform, but we added a twist. I asked if they
would add the person who runs my Facebook Ads as a temporary user to their account so that
I could put in my credit card and spend my money to buy ads through their ads account that
pointed to the interview on their platform. Here is an example of how this worked:
About a decade ago, one of the first people on my Dream 100 list was Tony Robbins. To
make a really long story short, I had the chance to meet him in person during one of his
Unleash the Power Within events. I then went on to speak at his Business Mastery event in Fiji
and was interviewed for his New Money Mastery DVD program. Yes, I had been digging my
well for over a decade. I had tried to serve however and whenever he asked. And when Expert
Secrets was done, I decided that I was finally going to ask Tony for something. I asked if he’d
be willing to interview me about my new book on his Facebook page.
Now this step is very important. I didn’t want to interview him on my page, because then
only my people would see it. If he interviewed me on his page, all of his (then) 3.2 million
followers would see it! He agreed, and the second that we started the interview, over 1,500
people watched live. When the interview was over, I asked Tony if I could spend my money to
buy ads to that video through his profile and that I’d still pay him a $20 commission on every
book he sold in addition to me covering the costs of the ads. I tried to make this a huge win for
him, and he said, “Yes!” During our launch week, that interview was seen by Tony’s fans over
2.8 million times! Since then, it’s had a total of 3.1 million views. And that result was from just
one of my Dream 100.
Figure 4.4: By getting interviewed on Tony’s Facebook page, I was able to get in front of his huge


--- PAGINA 48 ---

audience. This one video alone has been viewed over 3.1 million times!
I ended up doing a countless number of interviews on every platform possible, and during
launch week, we sold over 71,248 copies of Expert Secrets! (The average New York Times
bestseller only sells about 10,000 copies during opening week.) This is how we “worked our
way in” to the audiences of our Dream 100.
Not all promotions are an interview, although I think that is the easiest way to illustrate this
concept. Many of my Dream 100 had an email list, and they promoted my books to those lists
by sending out an email recommending purchase of the book. Some wrote reviews and posted
it on their blogs, while others talked about it inside their Instagram stories. Everyone
published to their own platforms in different ways, so I let them do what was most
comfortable to them. I will always be grateful to them for putting me in front of their
audiences: my dream customers!
Now, this concept isn’t just a launch strategy. It can and should be a consistent part of your
business. To this day, I still do multiple interviews each month for people who have a platform
that want to have me on as a guest. I would recommend trying to do at least two per week as a
starting goal. This may seem like a lot, but it’s how you fill your funnels with consistent leads.
Usually at the end of the interview, the host will ask me what I’m working on or where I would
like people to go for more information, and I direct them toward whatever funnel we are
focusing on at the time. Sometimes I will tell them to get a free copy of one of my books, while
other times it’s to get a free trial of ClickFunnels, download a free report, or subscribe to my
podcast.
This can and should be a consistent part of your traffic strategy. This organic, earned traffic
oftentimes converts at a much higher rate than almost any form of paid traffic. It’s harder to
scale, but your hottest, best buyers will typically come from an endorsement from your Dream
100.
We call this “earned” traffic because you typically aren’t paying for it with money, but you
are paying for it with your time. When people are getting started and don’t have an
advertising budget, I always recommend starting with earned traffic. The first eight years of
my business were entirely fueled by earned traffic. I worked my way into my Dream 100, got
in front of their audiences, and, with their endorsements, drove traffic into my funnels.
For those of you who are starting with a big budget who think that you can skip this part, I
would be careful. I’ve found that paid traffic will get you started more quickly, but the second
you turn off the ads, the traffic stops. On the other hand, when you have been constantly and
consistently working on earning traffic, your traffic will hit a point of critical mass where you
can’t turn it off even if you wanted to.
Figure 4.5: While controlled (paid) traffic usually produces a quick spike, the traffic typically
fizzles out. Earned traffic often produces a slower amount of traffic than paid traffic at first, but
usually grows over time.
In Section Two, I will be going deeper into each of the platforms that we leverage, and I’ll
show you more specifics on how to get this earned traffic. For now, though, I just want you to
understand the foundational concepts behind earned traffic and how it works.
Now, let me transition into the next type of traffic: traffic you control.
STEP #3: BUY YOUR WAY IN (TRAFFIC THAT YOU CONTROL)


--- PAGINA 49 ---

Figure 4.6: While you’re building relationships with your Dream 100, you can still get traffic by
buying it.
In a perfect world, every one of your Dream 100 would say “Yes!” and promote you to their
audiences on all their platforms daily. You’d get unlimited free traffic, you’d never have to risk
any money on ads, and business would be really easy. Unfortunately, it doesn’t work that way.
Typically, if I contact all of the 100 people on my list, I’ll usually get about 30 that will say yes,
they will help, and then usually only about 10 people will actually do any real promotion.
Sometimes they’re too busy or get caught at a bad time, while other times they might have a
competing product. Honestly, sometimes they may just look at you as their competitor or
maybe they just flat-out hate you, and that’s okay too. Just because you can’t get them to
promote you for free doesn’t mean you can’t still get in front of their audience by running paid
traffic. Yes, you can even get in front of the audiences of the people who hate you.
However, when I got started over 15 years ago and I was trying to sell my potato gun DVDs
and other products I had created, this wasn’t an option. You had to work your way in, and if
the person who controlled the traffic said no, you had no other options. But now thanks to
Facebook and now pretty much all social platforms, you can usually target the followings of
your Dream 100 and show ads directly to them. Yes, that means that before Tony ever did the
live interview and promoted Expert Secrets on his page, I had spent a decade buying ads on
Facebook that only showed up to his followers.
Now while I’m digging my well and building relationships with people, at the same time I’m
buying my way in to their audiences. I do this for a few reasons.
First: It’s faster. Paid ads can give you immediate feedback. I can turn an ad on and within
minutes have people flooding into my funnels.
Second: It gives me the ability to test out different hooks and see what things people in each
of my Dream 100’s audience are clicking on. Before I did the interview with Tony, we tested
dozens of headlines and images and ideas with his audience as ads and saw what things got
the most clicks and engagements. Then, when I had the opportunity to be interviewed by Tony,
I knew what his people actually wanted to hear and I could craft my message around that.
Third: 90 percent of my Dream 100 will likely never actively promote me on their own, but I
still want to get in front of their audiences, and this is the only way. It’s not as powerful as an
endorsed promotion, but it’s the second-best thing.
Fourth: Paid ads are how you scale a company fast. My number-one goal with every funnel I
create is to have a “breakeven” funnel, where for each $1 we put into paid ads, we get at least
$1 back. You see, this is the big secret that I shared in DotCom Secrets, which was proven
with the launch of ClickFunnels.
About a year after we launched ClickFunnels, we were approached by the first big venture
capitalist company who wanted to give us funding. They had funded another Boise software
startup and wanted to add another hypergrowth company to their portfolio. I went to lunch
with one of the partners of the company to find out what they had in mind. As we started
eating, he started to ask me the questions that I had seen so many times while watching Shark
Tank.
“How much money does it cost you to acquire a customer?”
I smiled, knowing he wouldn’t understand my answer, and then said, “Well, we were paying
about $250 to get a free ClickFunnels trial, but we turned those ads off.”
“Wait . . . what? That is a great CPA (cost per acquisition)! With those numbers, if we were
to give you $10 million, we could help add another 40K members. Not only would that make
you worth a lot more, but we could also take on another round of funding afterward!”


--- PAGINA 50 ---

I stuttered a little, then explained, “We actually turned them off because I’m paying for the
ads out of my own pocket. I don’t have the luxury to go $10 million in debt to get 40K
members. Every customer I bring in needs to be profitable from day one.”
Then I showed him the DotCom Secrets book funnel and explained that while it cost me
about $23 on average in ads to sell a book, we actually made over $37 on average from every
person who bought the book.
“Wait . . . that makes no sense. How do you make $37 selling a free book? You only charge
$7.95 shipping and handling.”
Figure 4.7: When we create multiple buying opportunities for our customers in our funnel, we
usually break even or make a small profit on the front end. It allows us to scale without limits.
I laughed and said, “That’s the big secret of a funnel. People paid me $7.95 for each book,
but then we upsell our courses after they buy the book.” I went on to explain the concepts
further, as I’m about to do for you right now. Because we can get lost in the weeds with
numbers, I’ve broken it down as simply as possible into the four steps a customer goes
through. Be sure to reference Figure 4.7 and read through this a few times until you grasp
how “average cart value” works.
The Product: We made $7.95 immediately from each person who bought the book.
Total cart value: $7.95
I spent $23 in ads to acquire a customer, which made for a negative: -$15.05
Order Form Bump: On the order form, we had our first upsell for the audio book and
20.8% of our buyers added the $37 product to their order (otherwise known as a bump).
New money collected for each buyer: $37 x 20.8% = $7.70
Total average cart value: $7.95 + $7.70 = $15.65
I spent $23 in ads, which made for a negative: -$7.35
OTO #1: After the buyer’s order, they immediately see the first of our two special
upsells, which are also called one-time offers (OTOs). Our first OTO was $97 for one of
our online digital courses that helped implement what they would learn in the book. This
first OTO had 9.92% order conversion in a one-click upsell that allowed them to add it to
their order without having to re-enter their credit card information.
New money collected for each buyer: $97 x 9.92% = $9.62
Total average cart value: $15.65 + $9.62 = $25.27
I spent $23 in ads, and we finally made a profit: $2.27
OTO #2: Then we offered a second OTO selling a course on how to get traffic into
funnels for $297. This second OTO had 4.19% order conversion using a one-click upsell.
New money collected for each buyer: $297 x 4.19% = $12.44


--- PAGINA 51 ---

Total average cart value: $25.27 + $12.44 = $37.71
I spent $23 to get each customer, but with an average cart value of $37.71 in sales,
we made a net profit for each new buyer who came into our funnel: $14.71
I continued, “So when you do the math and add up all the orders, we averaged $37.71 in
total sales for each book that was sold! We call that number the average cart value, or ACV.
After the customer bought the book, we used a follow-up funnel via emails, retargeting,
Messenger, and other follow-up tools to introduce them to ClickFunnels over the next 90 days.
Because we acquired the customer profitably with our funnel before they were shown our
software, we got a customer first and made a profit before we ever introduced them to our
core product. That’s how we’ve been growing so fast without any outside funding.”
Figure 4.8: By creating front-end offers, we’re able to acquire customers for free (and sometimes
for a profit), and then we introduce them to ClickFunnels.
He sat there for a minute and then stated, “If what you’re saying is true, this will change
business as we know it forever.”
I smiled and told him, “Yes, that is the message that I’ve been called to bring to this world.”
You see, there are really only two ways to scale a company fast. The first is to take on
outside funding and then to use that money to either acquire other companies or pay to
acquire customers. However, this way is lazy and inefficient, and I don’t recommend it. I liken
this strategy to taking steroids to win a bodybuilding contest. Yes, you won, but you cheated.
The better, smarter, and more efficient way to scale a business is to create a funnel that is
profitable and then to put as much money into paid ads as possible. When you have a funnel
that at least breaks even, then you don’t have an advertising budget and you can spend as
much money as you want without it ever costing you anything to acquire customers.
I remember when we had this realization with ClickFunnels. We had been buying ads into
our funnels and slowly growing them. We went from spending $100 per day to spending
thousands per day, and our front-end, break-even funnel that we were driving traffic to was
making us money for each new customer that came in our doors. Even better, a huge
percentage of those customers then joined ClickFunnels at $97 per month, meaning we no
longer had an advertising budget. As long as we watched the ads closely and made sure that
we didn’t buy ads in places that weren’t going to at least break even, we could grow fast. Soon
we were spending over $25,000 per day and growing at a pace that no one had ever seen
before.
You might still be asking yourself, “Which is better: controlled traffic or earned traffic? Is it
better to work your way in or buy your way in?” The answer is, “Both are essential to the long-
term success of your company.” If you only focus on paid ads, you are left at the mercy of the
networks that allowed you to buy the ads. If and/or when Google or Facebook slaps or snaps,
you can lose the lifeblood of your company overnight. If you only rely on earned traffic, you
are completely relying on other people to get your message out to the market.
While the blend of these two types of traffic is the key to building a solid foundation for your
company, there is still one other type of traffic that trumps both earned and controlled traffic.
Given the chance to have only one, I’d always choose this third and last type of traffic: traffic
that you own.


--- PAGINA 52 ---

SECRET #5
TRAFFIC THAT YOU OWN
Figure 5.1: While traffic that you earn and traffic that you control is good, traffic that you own is
the best type of traffic to have.
Those numbers couldn’t be right . . . could they? I thought. I did the math again.
“If I had 10,000 people on my list, and I was selling a $50 product . . . if just one percent of
them bought a product from me . . .” I mumbled under my breath. “One percent of 10,000
people was 100 people times $50.” Then it hit me. I’d make $5,000, right?
No, that can’t be right. Can it? I hadn’t made that much money so far this year, let alone
from sending one email. But wait, what if I had 100,000 people and sold the same product?
That would be $50K! And that was if just one percent of the people I sent an email to actually
bought a product from me!
But what do the numbers look like if two percent buy? $100,000? Whoa! That’s more money
than most people make in a year. I must be doing these numbers wrong. But even after
running the numbers a second time, I came up with the same result.
Then a new idea flew into my head and I was so excited that my hands were literally
shaking. The words that were in my head wouldn’t stay there any longer and I actually started
to say out loud, “Wait. This is from just one campaign. What if I did that once per month . . . or
once per week . . . or even once per day? Is that even possible?”
Suddenly I realized that I was still in class, even though the bell had rung 15 minutes
earlier. The teacher was gone, and most of the kids, outside of a few people lingering, were
talking about their plans for the weekend. Luckily no one was close enough to hear what I was
actually saying to myself. I felt like I was just given something illegal, some type of insider
trading, where no matter how I did the math, as long as I focused on this one thing, I was
going to win.
I looked around at those few people still in the room just long enough to see that no one was
even aware that I was there, and I half smiled and started writing again. As I was scratching
numbers on the back of a pad of paper, I had one of those experiences. You know what I’m
talking about? That feeling when you found something that was too good to be true, but no
matter how many ways you looked at it, you couldn’t disprove it?
I had stumbled upon the key that could change everything for me. I was just trying to figure
out how to play the game of online marketing when I came across a short reply to a forum
post online regarding if people were really making money online or if it was all just a big
scam.
I wish I knew who this author was so I could thank him for this insight. While I can no longer
find the original post, it went a little something like this:
Every so often I hear the skeptics ask this question, and I always smile because I know
that they don’t understand how leverage works. They’re used to working eight hours a day
and getting paid for those hours. If they want to make $100K per year, they have to make
at least $50 per hour, work 40 hours per week for at least 50 weeks per year. When they
hear about the “gurus” online making $100K in a weekend, it doesn’t make any sense to
them and they think it’s a scam, but it’s actually quite simple.


--- PAGINA 53 ---

When someone has spent the time to build a list of followers of 10,000, 100,000, or
1,000,000-plus people, they can send out an email to that list selling a product. To make
$100K, they only need a small percentage of those people to buy the product, yet to
someone working for the hourly wage it would take them all year to earn that amount.
Recently I sent an email to my list of 32,000 subscribers and offered them a chance to
buy one of my $37 e-books. Of those 32,000 people, only 232 of them decided to purchase
(just 0.7%), but that put a quick $8,584 into my pocket. That would have taken the
skeptics more than 171 hours (at $50 per hour) to earn the same as I did from less than 15
minutes writing the email and sending it out to my list.
My heart was beating out of my chest. I needed a list, and I wanted it now. I turned to
Google and started searching for the how. The next few days I learned all the secrets about
how to send mass emails. I purchased the software, got the computers set up (mass emails
used to be sent directly from a computer), and all that was left that I needed was a list of
email addresses to plug into the software and I’d be rich.
But where did people get these lists? I couldn’t understand that part of the puzzle, so I went
back to good ol’ Google for the answer. Within a few searches, I found the honey pot: a
website that would sell me a CD with over 1 million “spam-free email addresses.” I didn’t
know how they got them, but they guaranteed that they would be spam-free, so I was in. I sent
them the money and patiently waited for my CD to arrive.
Everything seemed so easy. Each step was falling into place! Why wasn’t everyone doing
this? Was I missing something?
I waited and waited for the means to test my theories, but the days turned into weeks with
nothing showing up. I emailed the company, asking them when I’d get the CD, but I didn’t get
a response back. Had I just fallen for a scam? Where was my list?
And then it happened! After a long day at school, and an even longer day at wrestling
practice, I got home late, beat up and tired. My wife, Collette, was working two jobs to
support her jobless student athlete at the time, and she was worn out too. I walked through
the door and gave her a kiss. But right before I sat on the couch for a few much-needed
minutes of rest before starting on my homework, I saw it! On the kitchen countertop was a
cardboard envelope, just big enough to hold a CD!
All of my tiredness disappeared, and excitement flooded into my body as I ran over, ripped it
open, and held in my hands the CD that would guarantee my freedom! One million names and
email addresses of people who wanted to send me money for cool stuff I was going to sell
them! I quickly started spewing out what I had written down a few weeks earlier to try to
explain to Collette what this thin disc meant to us.
“This has a million people’s email addresses on it! If we send out an email selling a $50
product and just one percent buys . . .” I grabbed a pad of paper and calculated the math
again. “One percent of 1 million people is 10,000 people! Ten thousand people times $50 is
$500,000—a half million dollars!”
“What?” Collette asked.
“I know, half a million seems like a lot, so let’s say it’s just 10 percent of that. That’s still
$50K! That’s almost double what we made last year from just one email! We could literally
send out emails every week!”
And then I dropped the bomb. “Collette, you should go and quit your job tomorrow! There is
no way this could fail. Even if just a fraction of that one percent buy, we’re gonna be rich!”
My wife probably tried to talk sense into this husband of hers, but I don’t remember much of
what she said because I was too busy running to the computer. I unplugged our phone line,
plugged it into my modem in the wall, and started writing the email. I wrote about an amazing
product that I had yet to create and ended the email with a “Buy Now” link to my personal
PayPal account. I loaded the email addresses in, where all I had to do was click send.
I sat there for a few minutes, visualizing what was about to happen. I did the math one last
time in my head, and then I took a deep breath, smiled, and clicked send.
0 of 1,000,000 emails sent . . .
1 of 1,000,000 emails sent . . .
5, 9, 21 of 1,000,000 emails sent!
It was going a lot slower than I expected, but knowing that $500K would be in my PayPal
account soon, I was okay waiting a little longer for it. With that, we went to bed, and like a kid
on Christmas Eve, I lay in bed dreaming about how much money would be in my account by


--- PAGINA 54 ---

morning.
The next morning, I was woken up by my wife. At first, I was a little groggy, but her getting
ready for work reminded me that she was supposed to quit today. That is, as long as we woke
up rich! I needed to check our sales! I ran to the computer and woke up the monitor.
6,423 of 1,000,000 emails sent.
WHAT?! Only six thousand emails had been sent so far. This was completely throwing off my
calculations. Instead of sending a million emails a day, it was going to take weeks to send a
full million. As I was rewriting my business plan in my head, Collette told me that she needed
to use the phone, and, for those of you who don’t remember dial-up modems, that meant I had
to pause the email, crawl under the desk, unplug the modem, and re-plug in the phone.
Within seconds, the phone rang. I crawled out from under my desk, almost hitting my head
as I answered it.
“Hello,” I muttered.
“What the #@%#^$@ are you doing?” exclaimed the stranger on the other line. “In the
past six hours, we’ve received over thirty spam complaints from your IP address, and we’re
going to shut you down.”
Wait . . . what? “Sir, you don’t understand. The people I’m emailing have spam-free email
addresses. They want me to send them emails. I purchased the list of emails from—”
“Son, that’s the definition of spam!” he yelled.
My heart sank. I vaguely remember him talking about lawyers and fines, but honestly I just
wanted to get off the phone and hide.
After what seemed like forever, I hung up with a huge lump in my throat.
“Who was that?” Collette asked.
“Um, no one.” But then I blurted out, “Just promise me that you won’t quit your job today, at
least not yet.” Collette smiled, took the phone, and turned to make her call.
I was so frustrated. I thought I had cracked the code. Other people were emailing their lists,
so why did I get in trouble when I sent emails to mine? I grabbed my backpack and started the
trek back to the college campus, but I felt numb as I walked out the front door. Instead of
going to class, I slipped into the computer lab, just to see if anything had happened during the
night. I logged into my PayPal account with this question spinning through my mind: Of the
6,423 people who did get my email, had anyone bought?
I waited for the loading screen . . . loading . . . loading . . . and then I saw the dashboard.
Every time I had logged into PayPal before, the balance always had a big fat $0.00 next to it,
but not this time! This time the number was different! Seven sales made the most beautiful
$70 I had ever seen!
It had worked! I was still a little confused, though. I knew that the way I did it was
completely wrong and potentially illegal. But I knew that there had to be a right way to build a
list that wouldn’t get me labeled as a spammer.
And so the next step in my journey began. With the newfound hope that I now had, I
searched for legitimate list owners so I could see what they were doing. I joined tons of lists
and watched the process. What did they do to get me to sign up? What emails did they send?
Why did some emails make me want to buy something, while others didn’t?
And then, something happened that I had never experienced before. All on the same day, I
got emails from dozens of these list owners about a guy whom they called “the godfather of
internet marketing” and how he was retiring. I clicked on the emails and was taken to a long
page telling the story of Mark Joyner, who was one of the early pioneers of online marketing
who had made millions of dollars. He was selling off all his intellectual property, along with a
course of him teaching how he had built his company so large so fast. In the course, he would
reveal how he had built email lists with millions of people and how he had some of the most
visited websites in the world.
I knew I had to buy this product no matter what it took. I had never felt this way before.
Something about the way he told his story and made his offer was so irresistible. For just
$1,000, I would get access to everything this man had ever created. I looked at that page for
weeks until his campaign was almost over and he was about to pull this offer offline forever.
The night before he was going to close it down, I lied in bed knowing that on the other side of
that $1,000 investment was the key to helping me build a list. I didn’t sleep that night, not for
one minute.
As the sun started to rise and I heard my wife waking up next to me, I knew I had to ask her
something, but I was scared. Every online venture over the past 18 months that I had tried
had failed. Just a few months earlier, I had gotten our internet access shut off within hours of


--- PAGINA 55 ---

me telling her she could quit her job. Yes, 23 “tests” in 18 months, all in an attempt to make
money online, had failed. We had no money to our name, I didn’t have a job, and Collette was
making a whopping $9.50 per hour at hers. I was about to ask her to let me spend $1,000 we
didn’t have on a hope and a dream.
I did that math. It would take her 105 hours of working to earn that money, and that was
before taxes. We needed that money for food and rent and everything else, but as she opened
her eyes and I asked her to make a sacrifice that I couldn’t, she smiled and asked, “Do you
think this will be the one that works?”
As I’m writing this now, I’m tearing up. I always say that you can only be as successful as
your spouse or significant other will allow you to be. When Collette looked at me in that
moment, I knew she believed in me, even though I had no track record of success, and I’m so
grateful that she did. I told her that I felt that it was the key, and if I could figure out how to
build a list, then we would be free, and Mark Joyner was the man who was going to teach us
how.
She gave me a kiss, told me she believed in me, and, with that, I jumped out of bed, ran to
the computer, and pulled out our only credit card and typed in the digits. Within seconds, it
was done. A week later, I had the course. What I had assumed at this point and what Mark
Joyner taught me were the same: the list is the key. That’s the big secret. It is the only real
asset in any company.
THE ONLY REAL SECRET TO BUSINESS: LIST BUILDING
When you look at the big online acquisitions, it’s interesting to see what the companies are
actually buying. In September 2005, eBay purchased Skype for $2.6 billion.10 At the time,
eBay was one of the largest online sites and their development team was arguably the best in
the world. It would not have been difficult for eBay to clone Skype and make a better product.
What Skype had that eBay wanted, though, was 54 million members in 225 countries and
territories, increasing at a rate of 150,000 new users daily. eBay was purchasing the list.
In more recent times, Facebook purchased Instagram (and its 30 million users) for $1
billion.11 Obviously, there are many reasons why Facebook made the acquisition, including
acquiring their development team and gaining speed to market, but one of the main reasons
was to obtain Instagram’s member list.
We also see it in smaller, entrepreneurial-type companies. Your list is your key to your
current and future success online. This is the best type of traffic: traffic that you own. As of
the time I’m writing this, I have 1.6 million entrepreneurs who are on my email lists, hundreds
of thousands on my Messenger lists, over a million following me on my social lists, and tens of
millions of people on my pixeled lists.
In fact, my only goal with traffic that I control and traffic that I earn is to convert it into
traffic that I own. That’s what I learned from Mark Joyner. When I’m buying ads, sure, I want
to sell a product, but, more importantly, I want to get those people on a list first. Because
when I buy an ad, I’m getting them to click once. When they join my lists, I can email them as
often as I like for free, instead of just getting them to click once. It’s the same with traffic that
I earn. I want to direct these people into funnels where I get their information and get them
on to my lists. That way I can follow up with them over and over again.


--- PAGINA 56 ---

Figure 5.2: With traffic I own, I can follow up with my leads and customers anytime I like.
That’s why the concept of the break-even funnel in Secret #4 is so vitally important. All of
the traffic I control and earn is always pushed into a front-end funnel that will ask for the
visitor to give me their email address, subscribe to a Messenger list, or both. That way, I can
convert them from traffic that I control or earn into traffic that I own, where I can market to
them for free, over and over again.
The different funnel types here are covered in great detail in DotCom Secrets, but for now, I
want to show you how we use these front-end funnels to convert clicks into traffic that you
own. In both traffic that I control and traffic that I earn, I have some type of call to action, or
CTA, pushing customers into a front-end, break-even funnel. For example, at the end of a
podcast interview, I might use three different CTAs to get people into my funnels:
If I’m using a lead funnel: “I’d love to give all of your listeners a free copy of my new e-
book, Marketing Secrets Blackbook, where you can learn 99 marketing secrets that will
change your business . . . And change your life. You can download your free copy at Marketing
Secrets.com/blackbook.”
With a lead funnel, you’re giving customers something for free in exchange for their email
address. We call the thing you are giving away for free a “lead magnet,” because if you create
something that is exciting for your dream customers, it will attract those leads just like a
magnet. You don’t sell anything in this type of funnel, but once they’re on your list, the follow-
up funnels are where you’ll make your profit.


--- PAGINA 57 ---

Figure 5.3: My lead funnel gives away 99 marketing secrets in a free e-book.
If I’m using a free book funnel: “I just finished my new book Expert Secrets, and I’d love to
send everyone a free copy if you’ll just cover my hard costs of shipping. Just go to ExpertSecre
ts.com and let me know where to ship your copy today!”
With the book funnel, we give them an amazing deal to get a copy of my book when they
cover the shipping. I send them the book, and then the upsells will cover my ad costs and
hopefully make me a small profit. More importantly, though, I create a customer to add to my
lists.
Figure 5.4: My book funnel gives away a free book (with $7.95 shipping) called Expert Secrets.
If I’m using a webinar funnel: “I have a new web class coming up where I’m showing a new
secret funnel strategy that almost nobody knows about, that once you understand, can take
your business from ‘startup’ to ‘Two Comma Club’ winner practically overnight. You can
register for this free web class at SecretFunnelStrategy.com.”
With the webinar funnel, I invite them to the web class. When they register, they join my list.
Then at the end of the web class, I make a special offer which covers my ad spend and ideally
makes me a profit. (Note: this funnel and how to give the presentation is taught in great detail
in Expert Secrets.)


--- PAGINA 58 ---

Figure 5.5: My webinar funnel gives away a “secret funnel strategy” in a one-hour presentation.
Do you see how this works? I earn my way onto a platform, and then my offer at the end
pushes customers into one of my front-end, break-even funnels. Each of the funnels is created
in such a way that there is value at every step of it.
Figure 5.6: With all of my front-end end funnels, the goal is to break even so I can ascend my
customers up my value ladder, thereby making a profit.
With the traffic I control, the process I take leads through is similar. However, unlike earned
traffic where I would be getting in front of audiences by getting on to someone else’s show,
having someone send an email to their list for me, or letting me guest post on their blog, with
paid traffic, I create and buy ads.
UNDERSTANDING THE VALUE OF YOUR LIST
It’s been said that on the low end, you should average about $1 per month for each name on
your list, and when I got started, that was true. When I had 500 people on my list, I was
making about $500 per month. As I grew, these numbers held true for a while:
1,000 people on my list: $1,000 per month
10,000 people on my list: $10,000 per month
100,000 people on my list: $100,000 per month
But as I’ve gotten better at building a relationship with my lists, these numbers have gone
up dramatically. As a worst-case scenario, though, they should follow these metrics. For
example, if you know you want to make $100,000 per year, make sure you are focused on
getting at least 10,000 people on your list (10,000 people x $1 per month x 12 months =
$120,000). If you want to make $1 million per year, focus on getting 100,000 people on your
list (100,000 people x $1 per month x 12 months = $1,200,000).
Again, I want to note that these numbers change in every market. Most local businesses may


--- PAGINA 59 ---

only have 500–1,000 people on their lists, but because of their ability to build a better
relationship with that list, they could be making $50–$100 per name per month, whereas with
some types of lists (such as retargeting or social lists), you might only make $0.50 per name. I
suggest setting a benchmark of $1 per name per month and then trying to beat it.
As a side note, if you think about traditional investments like real estate, I see people all the
time spend $250,000 on a rental house and hope that it brings in a positive cash flow of $500
per month. Then they’ll take up to 30 years to pay off the mortgage (i.e., “break even”) while
still having to deal with broken toilets, tenants, and more.
List building is a completely different investment model. I might have to pay anywhere from
$1 to $5 per lead in Facebook. For this example, let’s use the top number. If I paid $5 per lead
and only spent $5,000, I would generate 1,000 leads. If I averaged $1 per month per name,
after five months I would break even, and after that I would have a positive cash flow of
$1,000 per month.
Having a list has also saved me multiple times in my company. Unfortunately, sometimes
things happened that required me to get an influx of money quickly or I would lose everything.
Traditionally, if I wanted to raise a quarter or half a million dollars in a weekend, it would be
impossible. Because I had a list, however, I could write a few emails, send them to the list, and
generate the needed revenue in days. Twice, my list has kept me from inevitable bankruptcy
when the market changed and my business was failing. I created a new offer, sent it to the
lists, and was able to quickly pivot and recover.
You might be wondering, “Now that I’ve added someone to my list, how does that grow my
company?” Well, the answer is simple. Now that you have created the most valuable thing
inside your company, you can then direct your subscribers into “follow-up funnels.”


--- PAGINA 60 ---

SECRET #6
FOLLOW-UP FUNNELS
My mentor and friend David Frey wrote: “A study done by the Association of Sales Executives
revealed that 81 percent of all sales happens on or after the fifth contact. If you’re a small
business owner and you’re only doing one or two follow-ups, imagine all the business you’re
losing. Not following up with your prospects and customers is the same as filling up your
bathtub without first putting the stopper in the drain!”12
Some say that the “fortune is in the follow-up,” and I believe it’s true. The way we follow up
is to take the traffic that we now own and push them through follow-up funnels.
Last year, I pulled the stats from four of our most successful front-end funnels to
demonstrate the power of driving people toward a break-even funnel and then using follow-up
funnels. Let me give you a breakdown of what happened over a 30-day window. (Note: ACV
stands for average cart value, i.e., how much we made on average from each person after they
bought the front-end offer plus any upsells.)
Funnel #1: DotCom Secrets free + shipping book funnel
Leads generated: 5,410
Books sold: 2,395
Average cart value: $30.81
Total gross sales: $73,789.95
Ad spend: $69,026.31
Profit: $4,763.64
Funnel #2: 108 Split Tests book funnel
Leads generated: 2,013
Books sold: 1,357
Average cart value: $12.38
Total gross sales: $16,799.66
Ad spend: $13,813.57
Profit: $2,986.09
Funnel #3: “Perfect Webinar Secrets” free + shipping funnel
Leads generated: 1,605
Product sold: 760
Average cart value: $34.38
Total gross sales: $26,128.80
Ad spend: $22,359.94
Profit: $3,768.86
Funnel #4: Marketing in Your Car free + shipping MP3 player funnel
Leads generated: 5,177
MP3 players sold: 1,765
Average cart value: $14.79
Total gross sales: $26,104.35
Ad spend: $23,205.25
Profit: $2,899.10

