# CHUNK 9 (Paginas 161-180)


--- PAGINA 161 ---

what if he found 10 or 20 or 100 affiliates who each had lists of tens of thousands of people?
Instead of his message getting sent to thousands of people, he could reach millions.
The amount of leverage you get when you build an affiliate program and rely on the efforts
of other people is huge. It’s kind of like building a team and hiring people to do these tasks for
you, except when they’re an affiliate, you don’t pay them for the work. Instead, you pay them
commissions based on the sale. They have the risk, and you both share the rewards!
Figure 18.1: You don’t have to be good at everything. You can get an army of affiliates to promote
your products and services with their preferred method of traffic.
That was the epiphany I was looking for. Instead of becoming the best person in the world at
driving traffic, I needed to create an opportunity for the top affiliates to make money by
promoting my products and services. Then I could focus my efforts on recruiting, training, and
paying them.
Throughout this book, we’ve spent a lot of time talking about the Dream 100, and this is
where it starts. If you’ve been building out your Dream 100 within each platform, you have
your potential army of affiliates ready. This chapter will then focus on five steps:
1. Recruit your army of affiliates
2. Make them affiliates
3. Give your affiliates a reason to promote
4. Train your affiliates to become super affiliates
5. Compensate your affiliates
STEP #1: RECRUIT YOUR ARMY OF AFFILIATES
If you’ve been following the Dream 100 process, then you’ve already created lists of your
potential affiliates. If you’ve been digging your well before you’ve been thirsty, then you’ve
been building relationships with them. If you haven’t yet, I’d recommend going back and
starting that process as soon as possible. Every Dream 100 person has their own distribution
channel. Some have an email list, others have a following on Facebook or Instagram, others
have a podcast with a lot of subscribers, and some have more than one of those channels.
We’ve talked about working your way into their audiences as well as buying your way in.
Asking your Dream 100 to be an affiliate is blending both of these things together. You have to
work your way in to build relationships and to get people to say yes to promoting, but then you
have to pay your way in for each sale they make. When someone is an affiliate, though, it takes
the risk off you. You’re no longer buying ads and hoping they convert. Instead, your Dream
100 is promoting you, and you only pay them after they’ve made the sale.
So how do you turn your Dream 100 into an army of affiliates? The first thing you have to do
is ask them to be an affiliate, even though asking is oftentimes the hardest part. If you’ve been


--- PAGINA 162 ---

digging your well with your Dream 100, and if you have a relationship with them, you should
know the projects and ideas that they are working on. In return, they should also know what
things you’re working on.
Tim Ferris, author of The 4-Hour Workweek, spent over a year getting to know some of the
most influential bloggers in the world at the same time he was writing his book.50 He started
digging his well before he was thirsty. When they asked him what he did, he would tell them
that he was writing a book. After he finished the book and was ready to launch it, he sent out
over 1,000 pre-release copies to the bloggers he had met. He also asked them to write a
review about the book on launch day. Most of these people loved his book, so on launch day, a
huge percentage of them wrote blog posts about it to their followers. Tim’s army of affiliates
helped to send his book into bestseller status overnight.
Every time we have a big launch coming out, we let our affiliates know the launch date, and
we ask them to block it out on their calendar. In a typical launch, I may ask 100 people to
promote. Thirty people will usually say yes, yet just 15 or so of them will actually promote. It’s
just a numbers game, and often it doesn’t fit into their promotional schedule at the time. Don’t
take it personally; just know that the more people you ask, the more likely you’ll get the yeses
you need to have a good launch.
One strategy we often use (that was pioneered by Chet Holmes and made famous by Dana
Derricks) is to send out packages to our Dream 100 telling them about the promotions we
have coming up. Each package could be worth thousands, and in some cases, one yes could be
worth millions from the right partner. Because of this, we spend a lot of money sending out
cool stuff in the mail to recruit affiliates. The key is getting their attention and giving them a
reason to promote.
As you’re recruiting affiliates to sell your product, it is important to understand that there
are different types of affiliates, each with a different motivation. Some are only concerned by
how much money they make and want a high-converting funnel, while others are more
concerned with whether or not the product is a good fit for their audience. For me, I don’t
care what their motivation is. I just want to serve their customers, so I want to make sure
they’re happy at all costs. Since one yes from one of them could bring hundreds of your dream
customers, it’s worth putting in a lot of effort to build these relationships.
STEP #2: MAKE THEM YOUR AFFILIATES
After your Dream 100 has said they want to be an affiliate, you have to make it official by
getting them to join your affiliate program. Inside ClickFunnels there is an affiliate platform
called Backpack that you can use to add an affiliate program to any funnel inside of your
ClickFunnels account. You just need to turn it on for a funnel, and it will create a page where
your Dream 100 can sign up to become an affiliate. Within the software, it will provide
tracking links for your funnel, track their sales, and pay their commissions. We’ve created an
extensive training inside ClickFunnels on how to set up your affiliate program. Go to TrafficSe
crets.com/resources to find it.
Often, your best affiliates will be your customers. I always like to let my customers know
that they can actually make money by referring their friends. You can put links to your affiliate
sign-up page on your funnels, on your thank-you pages, and in your emails. That way, you are
helping them to earn commissions on the products they already love and helping them to
spread your message.
STEP #3: GIVE YOUR AFFILIATES A REASON TO PROMOTE
Once someone is an affiliate, you need to give them a reason to promote. They could promote
millions of products, so you need to explain why they should promote your products, and,
more importantly, why they should promote you now. Usually, we’re able to get affiliates to
promote based on one of three things:
A new launch
Their turn on a rolling launch
Something special or new
A new launch: Launching a new product is one of the easiest ways to get affiliates to promote
because you can tell them about the new project that you’ve been working on, send them
copies of the product in the mail, and let them experience what you’re going to be selling. We
usually roll out two to three new front-end products each year that we ask affiliates to


--- PAGINA 163 ---

promote. We set a launch date and start recruiting affiliates 60–90 days before each launch.
We send out Dream 100 packages, call them on the phone, send emails, and do whatever else
we need to do to have them block out our launch dates on their calendars. The earlier you can
ask them to dedicate time to your launch, the better, so they can make sure they don’t have
any other promotional conflicts.
As we get closer to the launch date, we’ll typically put everyone who has agreed to promote
into a special Facebook group where we can communicate with them about everything that’s
happening in the launch. This helps to build a community of affiliates and create a fun
competitive environment where we share leaderboards and give people multiple reasons to
promote during the launch.
The rolling launch: A rolling launch is similar to a new launch, but instead of everyone
promoting on one single launch date, you let people each have their own turn to do a launch to
their lists. This is how we initially launched ClickFunnels. Once I knew my webinar converted,
instead of having everyone promote it at once, I set up special webinars for each affiliate. I
would do two to three of these a week for a few months. This rolling launch gave us the ability
to work with each affiliate to find a time in their own promotional calendar that would work.
The longevity of a rolling launch is a lot longer. For a typical product launch, there is an
opening day and a close cart day, and affiliates who couldn’t promote during that time missed
out. Also, a huge launch can often lead to too many new customers too fast, which might clog
up your customer support. A rolling launch gives you the ability to onboard new customers at
a much easier pace.
Something special or new: Often I’m recruiting affiliates who don’t want to be part of a
product launch. They may be SEO marketers, or they may be really good at PPC, or they may
want a higher commission because they’re so good. There could be dozens of different
reasons, but my goal is to be able to serve their customers, so I’ll work with them individually
to see what is best for them. I may set up a special landing page, a different offer, a higher
commission, or whatever else they need that will give them a good reason to promote for me.
STEP #4: TRAIN YOUR AFFILIATES TO BECOME SUPER AFFILIATES
As you’ll soon find, the better the affiliate is, the lazier they often are; and the worse the
affiliate is, the more training they’ll need. Both of these became problems for us. New
affiliates didn’t know what to do or how to promote us; the good affiliates knew how to do it
but wouldn’t promote unless we made the process very simple for them. (Good affiliates make
a lot of money and have a lot of people begging for their attention.) In both cases, nothing
would happen. To solve this problem, we created affiliate training centers that had two goals:
Show new affiliates how to promote our products. We trained them how to run ads, track
their sales, and more.
Offer copy-and-paste ads that our super affiliates could grab and quickly edit. We gave
them sample email ads, banner ads, copy for Facebook posts, and more.
With Backpack (inside of ClickFunnels), you can create an affiliate center. The affiliate
center is one of the most powerful tools you can have in your traffic arsenal because it’s easy
to create an affiliate center for each of your funnels.


--- PAGINA 164 ---

Figure 18.2: Your affiliate center is a place to give your affiliates as many assets and as much
training as possible for them to be successful.
STEP #5: COMPENSATE YOUR AFFILIATES
“How much should I pay my affiliates?” This is the question I get the most, and one that I get
hit with the most resistance toward when I tell people my philosophies. While most people are
always asking how little they can pay their affiliates, I want to figure out ways that I can pay
them the most possible. The more you’re able to pay your affiliates, the more likely they are to
promote you. They’re your commission-based sales team, and affiliates who are good have
unlimited opportunities to sell anything they want. They don’t need you; you need them.
When we first launched ClickFunnels, I noticed that most of the other software companies
were paying their affiliates 20–30 percent commission on their sales. We launched
immediately with a 40 percent commission for our affiliates, and because of that, we were
able to recruit most of their top affiliates. They stopped promoting the other software products
and started promoting ours.
At the time, I started watching how many top network marketing programs bought cars for
their top recruiters. After reviewing our own affiliate program at ClickFunnels, I realized that
if one of our affiliates brought in 100 ClickFunnels members at $100 per month, then 5
percent of those commissions ($500) would equal enough to cover the lease payment on a
dream car. So we added a bonus in our affiliate program: we would pay any affiliate an extra
$500 each month to pay for their dream car if they had more than 100 people signed up under
them and $1,000 per month toward their dream car if they signed up 200 people.
These few things alone helped us to get some of the top affiliates in the world to start
promoting us. I didn’t want to stop there, though; I wanted to figure out how to pay them
more. Shortly after we launched the ClickFunnels affiliate program, we started launching new
front-end funnels that our affiliates could promote. The first one was the DotCom Secrets
book, where people could pay $7.95 shipping to get a copy of the book, and then we would
upsell the audio book and other related courses. We set it up so affiliates would earn 50
percent of all sales that came from that funnel, and when they upgraded to ClickFunnels later,


--- PAGINA 165 ---

we would also pay them their 40 percent recurring commission on those sales.
We did this for the first three weeks of the book launch, and then we started looking at our
stats. We noticed that for each person who bought the book, we were making about $20 in
sales from the upsells. It was also costing us about $20 to give away the book for free from our
own Facebook Ads. (If you remember, we were okay with that because it was a break-even
funnel. And we were okay with losing money as long as we could push them back into
ClickFunnels.)
Then we had an idea. Instead of paying people a percentage of sales in that book funnel,
what if we gave them a flat CPA of $20 for every book they sold? We wouldn’t make any
money, and in some cases, we could lose some money, but it would incentivize our affiliates to
promote harder. So that’s what we did the last week of the launch. We paid $20 for every free
book our affiliates gave away, and our army of affiliates sold tens of thousands of copies of
that book! We broke even, our affiliates got paid, and from that promotion alone we got
thousands of new ClickFunnels members for free!
As you can see, there are two core ways you can pay affiliates. The first is to pay out a
percentage of the sale, and the second is to pay them a flat CPA for every sale they make.
My rule is that I try to pay out 50 percent of the profit I make in my funnel. For instance, if I
have a digital product or a course, I assume my fulfillment costs will be about 20 percent of
the sale, so I split the remaining 80 percent with the affiliate who brought in the sale. If I’m
selling a physical product and my costs of goods sold are 60 percent, then I only have 40
percent profit, and I’ll split that with the affiliate right down the middle. If I have a front-end
funnel, then I’ll usually give 100 percent (or more) to the affiliate to really motivate them to fill
the front of my value ladder with my dream customers.
There have even been times that we’ve paid $80 or more on a free book, because we knew
that within a few weeks of sale, we would be profitable. I recommend staying at or below 100
percent commissions on any front-end offer until you’ve mastered your numbers and know the
actual lifetime value of your customers and are okay to float the money for a few months while
the customers are going through your follow-up funnels.
Building a successful affiliate program has brought us more traffic, leads, and sales than any
other marketing technique. If you pay your dues with your Dream 100, recruit them to be an
affiliate, treat them well, and always figure out more ways to make them money, they will keep
your funnels filled with your dream customers. If I turned off all other traffic techniques that
we’ve been using and only use this one, I’d still have an army of people buying Facebook Ads
for me, sending out emails for me, ranking websites, and buying ads. Make this a priority and
it will serve you for the rest of your life.


--- PAGINA 166 ---

SECRET #19
COLD TRAFFIC
Thus far, I’ve focused on two types of traffic: warm traffic (the fans and followers and lists of
your Dream 100) and hot traffic (your own list). For most companies, this is all that you will
ever need to focus on. I strongly believe that you can build most companies to multiple eight
figures a year just by focusing on warm traffic and then turning it into hot traffic. If you want
to scale beyond that, though, you’ll have to master one other type of traffic: cold traffic.
In DotCom Secrets, I called this “traffic temperature,” and it’s a concept that I started to
understand after first hearing this amazing quote from the late Eugene Schwartz:
If your prospect is aware of your product and has realized it can satisfy his desire, your
headline starts with the product.
If he is not aware of your product, but only of the desire itself, your headline starts with
the desire.
If he is not yet aware of what he really seeks, but is concerned with the general
problem, your headline starts with the problem and crystallizes it into a specific need.51
Figure 19.1: Prospects are at different stages in their awareness of the problem, solution, and
product based on the temperature of the traffic.
To me, it meant that traffic that was cold needed to be spoken to differently than traffic that
was warm or hot because they weren’t even aware that a solution existed, let alone that there
was a product to solve their problem.
Most of the landing pages, offers, and ads that you’ve created up to this point are for people
who are solution aware or product aware. They know they have a problem, they’ve tried a
bunch of solutions, and you’re presenting them with a new opportunity that will get the results
that they want. Because they are already aware of the potential solutions, have done some
research, and have probably tried a bunch of your competitors, when you have a chance to
hook them and tell them your story, they already have a context for the problem you’re trying
to solve for them.
For example, in my market, many of my customers have a problem: they want to make more
money. To solve that problem, they could try any number of solutions: they could set up an e-
commerce store, sell things on eBay, learn SEO, master Facebook Ads, or do about a hundred
other things. They’re aware of all the possible solutions, so I have to show them that my
solution (funnels) is a new opportunity that trumps all the others. If they’re product aware,
they’ve probably heard of all my competitors, so I have to convince them that my product is
superior, and then they will buy it from me.
Cold traffic, on the other hand, often isn’t even aware they have a problem. If you remember
the three core markets, cold traffic is a group of people that are at the 3 Core Desires level.
All they know is that their health, wealth, or relationship isn’t good; they don’t have any
understanding yet of anything beyond that. They haven’t been congregated into groups yet, so
no one is helping them. If they are aware they have a problem, they’re still at the beginning of
their journey and have no idea what to do or where to turn. Anything presented to them at this
point has to be filled with a lot of education to get them ready for what you have to offer.


--- PAGINA 167 ---

Figure 19.2: Often, cold traffic is only aware that their core desire (such as health, wealth, or
relationships) isn’t good.
Getting something to work in cold traffic will seem difficult, but it’s actually as simple as
changing your language patterns. To illustrate this, I’ll share a test we use to see if something
will work well with super cold traffic. Imagine I walk into the food court at the mall and see
300 people sitting at tables, eating lunch and minding their own business, completely unaware
of what I’m doing. If I stood on top of a chair and shouted from the top of my lungs, “Hey! Who
here would like to grow their companies using sales funnels?”, what do you think would
happen? You guessed it: they’d probably look at the crazy guy on the chair for a second and
instantly go back to eating. Chances are almost no one would raise their hands. But if I pulled
up that same chair and I changed what I yelled at the top of my lungs to “Who here wants a
moneymaking website?” I bet half the food court would raise their hands.
Interestingly enough, the solution to both these problems is that they need a funnel, but to
the people who are more unaware, my language doesn’t make sense to them. The difference
in talking to hot, warm, and cold traffic is the language that you use. “Funnels” don’t make
sense to the masses, so I have to change my language to “money-making website” to match
what they would understand. After I have their hands raised, I can educate them on a certain
type of website called a funnel, and I can help them to become solution aware. Finally, after
they’ve warmed up, they’ll be more willing to make a purchasing decision.
If you create a funnel that converts really well to warm traffic (the followers of your Dream
100) and your hot traffic (your own lists), it might not convert well to cold traffic. You see, no
matter how much cold traffic you get, you’ll probably go broke before you even get a single
customer. You have to create a different type of funnel that speaks to where they are and then
warms them up. Let me show you how it works.
STEP #1: CREATE YOUR “COLD TRAFFIC CUSTOMER AVATAR”
The first step in this process is to create a new “cold traffic customer avatar.” This avatar will
be similar to your current dream customer avatar, but cold traffic is much earlier in their
journey. They are six months to a year (or more) before they became your dream customer.
They know they have pain in the three core desires that you serve (health, wealth, or
relationships), but they haven’t started moving toward a solution yet. These people can
become your dream customers, but right now they are only problem aware. They are unhappy
because they know there is a problem, but they’re not yet aware of the solutions that are
possible and they’re definitely not aware of any products that will solve their problems. They
only know what the problem is and the results they want.
To identify this cold traffic customer avatar for myself, I had to look deep into my own past.
For most of you, if you’ve followed a traditional entrepreneurial journey, this avatar will mostly
likely be you five to ten years ago. Think about it: most entrepreneurs have struggled with the
desire of health, wealth, or relationships and went on a journey to get themselves out of pain.
During this journey, they fell in love with their own process of change, and they became
obsessed with helping others out of the same pain that they once had. This is how most
entrepreneurs find their mission.
If that’s true for you, you need to look back in time to where you were struggling with that
same problem that your cold market clients are experiencing right now. For me, I have to
think back almost 30 years ago to 12-year-old Rusty (yes, that’s what my parents and all of my


--- PAGINA 168 ---

friends called me back then). For some reason, as a 12-year-old, I had one desire: I wanted
money. I’m not sure why. I had a great childhood and nothing was lacking, but for some reason
my core desire was for wealth.
This desire caused my problem: I didn’t have any money. And how did I try to solve this
problem? Well, it started with me ordering Don Lapre’s course on classified ads from a late-
night infomercial. (I shared this story at length in DotCom Secrets.) It was the first vehicle
(submarket) that I learned about, and I was hooked. I saved up my money to try to buy
classified ads.
Shortly after I was introduced to one of the submarkets (making money with classified ads),
I started to become aware of a lot of them. One day I was at the grocery store, saw a magazine
called Small Business Opportunities, and begged my mom to buy a copy for me.
Inside of the magazine were dozens of ways to make money (lots of submarkets), and each
had a way to request an information kit to learn more. I called every 1-800 number, requested
every kit, and within weeks started getting hundreds of letters and packages in the mail, each
offering a new way to help me achieve the result I thought I wanted.
One kit showed how to get rich selling gold chains at the mall. The next showed how to get
rich painting glow-in-the-dark stars on people’s bedroom ceilings. Others showed how to get
rich in real estate, the stock markets, or commodities trading. Because I was only aware of my
problem, each message pitched me on the potential solutions for my problem (i.e., different
ways to make money).
Figure 19.3: There are many different opportunities all leading to the same result (making
money).
Every day when I came home from school, my parents would have a pile of “Rusty’s junk
mail” that I would grab and take into my room. I opened every letter, read every sales pitch,
and tried to understand which ones would help me get the result I thought I wanted. Some of
the pitches I would just throw away, and others would keep me up at night as I tried to figure
out how I could convince my parents to give me money to order their opportunity. Still others
were so good that I would mow lawns and do chores or anything else possible to get enough
money to purchase their information.
Later on in life, it would take me a while to remember what it felt like reading all those sales
pitches, but after I put myself back in those moments, my 12-year-old self became my
customer avatar for cold traffic. Now every time we create an ad, pick our targeting, design
our landing page, and make an offer for cold traffic, I try to go back in time and look through
the lens of 12-year-old me.
Is this ad something that would make Rusty click, or would I keep on scrolling? Is this offer
something that would cause Rusty to beg his parents for their credit card, or better yet, force
him to earn money because he had to have it? Or was this something that he would have just
thrown in the trash?
So my question for you is this: What is your version of 12-year-old Rusty? What were the
things that would have grabbed your attention at the beginning of your journey? What words
and phrases would you have used back then to explain what it is you’re doing now? If I had
seen words like “funnel” or “traffic” back then, I would have kept flipping through the
magazine. Instead, they had used words that described the problem I had and the result I was
trying to get in a way that I understood, and that’s why they were successful.
STEP #2: CREATE A BRIDGE
Marketing is all about creating bridges from what someone wants and desires to the solution


--- PAGINA 169 ---

that you provide. In DotCom Secrets, I shared this image showing the seven phases of a
funnel, where phase one is the traffic temperature and then phase two is the pre-frame
bridge.
Figure 19.4: The warmer the traffic, the smaller the pre-frame bridge needs to be.
As you can see, the warmer the traffic, the smaller the pre-frame bridge needs to be. If your
audience knows, trusts, and loves you (the hottest traffic), then your bridge could be as simple
as telling them you have something cool that you think they should buy. At our last Funnel
Hacking LIVE event, we had 4,500 funnel hackers in the audience—by far my hottest traffic—
and I asked them, “If I told you to buy something right now, how many of you would trust me
enough to just walk to the back of the room without knowing what it was, but you’d do it
because you believed me?” Over 60 percent of the room shot their hands up in agreement.
That is the power of hot traffic and the reason why the game becomes easier and easier as
you focus your efforts on tapping into your Dream 100’s hot traffic (your warm traffic) and
converting it into traffic that you own. The traffic that you own becomes your hot traffic. Can
you see now why I stressed the goal of converting warm traffic that you can earn and control
into traffic that you own so much?
As you move down the warm traffic bridge, it takes a little longer to bridge the gap between
what people already know and believe and what you have to offer. Sometimes that bridge is an
email from your Dream 100 endorsing you. Other times it’s a presell content video that people
watch on Facebook or YouTube warming them up to you and providing value before you direct
them into your funnels. And other times, the funnel alone is structured to be the actual pre-
frame bridge that warms them up.
The last and longest bridge is the cold traffic bridge. But how long does it need to be? It all
depends on how cold the targeted customers are. The first time I tried to grow past our Dream
100’s customers and figure out cold traffic, I took a segment of my customer list and ran some
intense data analysis on who our existing customers were. If you want a company to do this
for your customer lists, go to TrafficSecrets.com/resources to find an up-to-date list of
companies that you can hire.
When we got back the data, we found a lot of interesting trends, but one that really stuck
out was that a huge percentage of our customers at the time were conservative Republicans.
The report even referenced a few of the websites that this group spent a lot of time on.
Excited to find a new segment that I had never targeted, I went to these websites (as well as
other similar sites) and found that most of them had online media kits that allowed me to buy
ads in their email newsletter as well as banner ads on their websites. I put in an order to send
an email out to 2.3 million people that would direct them into our funnel that converted warm
traffic. I was doing the math in my head, and based on what I knew at the time (how big their
list was, how many clicks I should get, and how my warm traffic funnel normally converted), I
figured this email alone would make me a few hundred thousand dollars.
Once the publisher sent the email, I watched as hundreds of thousands of clicks came to my
funnel. That excitement quickly turned to horror, however, as these people almost immediately
bounced off and didn’t buy. When the campaign ended, we had made about a dozen sales, and
I had lost over $30,000 from the ad. I was defeated, and I swore I’d never look at cold traffic
again.
Then something interesting happened. I had joined these email lists before I paid for the ad
because I wanted to see my email when it hit, and each day afterward I started seeing how
other people who were marketing to these lists were doing it. I started clicking on their ads,
and slowly I started to funnel hack them. The links didn’t take me immediately to a funnel,
which didn’t make sense to me. Instead, the links took me to a page that looked similar to the
site that I had just been on. It looked less like a funnel and more like an article. I read the
article, and, within a few minutes, I saw something I hadn’t before. This article was speaking a


--- PAGINA 170 ---

very different language than I was. It was speaking directly toward the conservative
Republicans it was targeting, using their language, and telling stories about things that they
believed in and cared about. Then, within those stories, it started to bridge the gap between
what the conservative Republicans believed and what the advertiser was offering.
Toward the end of these articles was a link to join a newsletter that would give you more
information. I clicked on the link and joined that newsletter. I noticed that for most of these
cold traffic bridges, they didn’t sell anything to me for a while. I got newsletter number one in
their follow-up funnel, which continued to bridge concepts and beliefs with me through
stories. Within a few messages, they started to transition and push me into their front-end
funnels. At this point, even I was ready to buy.
They didn’t take people directly from a cold ad into a warm funnel. Instead, they took them
through a warming-up process to prepare them for the warm funnel. After I saw that, I was
ready for round two!
So we spent time trying to figure out:
What language patterns (words and phrases) should I use to explain what I’m trying to
warm people up for?
What false beliefs do people have that would keep them from buying when they did see
my funnel?
What stories did I have that could bridge the gaps and break their false beliefs?
What content pieces did we need to create to tell these stories?
We then wrote an article landing page which would become our cold traffic pre-frame
bridge. When we bought our next solo ad to the list, we sent all the traffic to this article page.
From the article page, we directed them to a lead funnel that captured their email address,
and then we built a follow-up funnel that led them to different posts on our blog, videos on
YouTube, and other places where we had strategically placed content to warm them up.
Eventually, we introduced them to our front-end offer after we had warmed them up.
The results? We were able to finally get cold traffic to work! Typically with warm traffic, we
try to break even immediately during the first funnel we direct them toward, but with cold
traffic, it takes longer because it’s a much longer bridge. With some sources, we’re able to
break even within a week, but others take two to three months or longer. That’s why it’s so
essential that if and when you break outside your Dream 100, you already have a solid value
ladder in place with follow-up funnels and sequences that convert. If you’re able to get your
offers to convert to cold traffic, then you can buy ads almost anywhere, including buying ads
in colder email lists and banner ads on most websites.
In order for most companies to scale past nine figures per year, you’ll need to master cold
traffic. To begin with, though, I’d still focus all your efforts on warm traffic and the Dream
100. I always tell people that there is a huge pile of cash sitting in front of you, waiting for you
to go and grab it. Don’t step over it while trying to go after bigger piles of cash somewhere
else. Stop and grab the big pile of cash (your hot and warm traffic) first, and then after you
have it all, you can start looking more at the cold traffic channels.


--- PAGINA 171 ---

SECRET #20
OTHER GROWTH HACKS
To conclude, I’m going to share some other fun ways to get traffic into your funnels. I could
keep adding more chapters with more ideas, but at some point, this book would become too
big to consume. Instead, I’ll use this chapter to help stimulate more fun ideas and growth
hacks that you and your team can use to start brainstorming other ways to get traffic into your
funnels.
My close friend and fellow early marketing pioneer Mike Filsaime pioneered a concept over
a decade ago that he called “butterfly marketing.”52 Basically, he believes that tiny changes in
your marketing can produce huge results. It is cause-and-effect applied to marketing online.
I had heard people talk about the butterfly effect when I was in school. I still remember my
teacher talking about how something as small as a butterfly flapping its wings in a certain
location could cause a tiny, almost imperceptible change in the environment that, when
combined with other changes in the weather system, could be indirectly responsible for a
hurricane forming on the other side of the world. But how do butterflies relate back to digital
marketing? Mike argues that there are a lot of little things you can do inside of your sales
funnels that, while seemingly small and insignificant, could have a massive impact after virally
compounding over time.
Mike spent a lot of time trying to figure out which things you could plug into your sales
funnel that would get the people who came to your funnels to refer other people for free
(word-of-mouth marketing). To make something truly viral, you had to get past a referral point
that Mark Joyner calls “copulation rate,” or the rate that your viral marketing is growing.
In other words, if you referred 100 people into your funnel and relied 100 percent on viral
marketing from that point forward, and if these 100 people each referred less than one
person, then your growth would quickly die. If they each referred exactly one person, then
your viral growth would flatline. However, as soon as each person you referred brought in
more than one person, then you would have something that would be truly viral.
Figure 20.1: To have something go viral, you need each person to refer more than one person.
Now, getting to a true copulation rate is very hard, and it’s impossible to sustain forever
because eventually you would have everyone in the world. Eventually, you hit a saturation
point and the viral growth will slow down and eventually stop.
I’ve only had one funnel that hit a true copulation rate of greater than one. It was a front-
end funnel we built to recruit people into a new network marketing company that we were
helping to launch. This funnel required people to sign a nondisclosure agreement (NDA), and
then they got five invite codes to invite others into the funnel. After they referred five people,
they would then be given five more invite codes.
We modeled this based on how Google initially launched Gmail. They gave each Gmail user
the ability to invite a limited number of people onto the platform. Invites became so valuable
that people were selling them on eBay for over $100 each!53


--- PAGINA 172 ---

Our viral front-end funnel signed up over 1.6 million people in just six short weeks. During
these six weeks, we averaged three new sign-ups for every one person who joined the site, and
I had a chance to see true viral growth. Unfortunately, the company this funnel was promoting
didn’t have everything ready for the launch, and they had to delay three or four times, pushing
the launch out to over nine months later. People got bored and the viral growth slowed to a
stop.
Now, most of us are probably not going to have the chance to have a site that has true viral
growth, and that’s okay. There are still plenty of things that you can do inside your funnels to
promote true viral, “refer a friend” style growth, where you can turn your traffic into more
traffic. I’ll share with you a few ideas from companies that you know that may give you ideas
of things you can weave into your funnels.
Dropbox: When users signed up for an account with Dropbox, in their upsell flow Dropbox
offered to give the new member more free storage if they linked their Twitter and Facebook
accounts and shared information about Dropbox on those accounts. This helped Dropbox grow
to over 500 million members worldwide!54
Facebook: When people first created their Facebook accounts, they were encouraged to add
all their contacts so Facebook could see if these people were already on the site and connect
you to them. Then Facebook took all the people who weren’t on the site and sent emails
inviting them to join Facebook from the new member.55
Hotmail: In the early years of Hotmail, Hotmail added a signature line to every email that
went out that said “PS: I love you. Get your free email at Hotmail.com.” That little hack helped
them to get to 12 million users in just 18 months.56
I had heard stories of some of these famous growth-hacking companies, so as we launched
ClickFunnels, we started to weave some of these concepts into our sign-up flow. Here are a
few of the things that we tested that were successful.
ClickFunnels + Dropbox’s growth hack: After someone created their ClickFunnels
account, we gave them a limited account that only had the ability to create up to 20 funnels.
Then we gave them an affiliate link with an opportunity to double their funnels from 20 to 40
when they referred a new user to ClickFunnels. This helped our members to bring in more
members.
ClickFunnels + Facebook’s growth hack: We didn’t have the capability to have people
import their friends and then send them emails, so we had to be creative to figure out how we
could model this growth hack. At the time, we were sending a lot of traffic to webinars that
would teach people about ClickFunnels. On the webinar, we would present people with an
offer to create their free 14-day trial account. We had an idea to plug in a “tell-a-friend” script
in the page after someone registered for the webinar. Once they referred five friends to the
webinar they’d just signed up for, they could get a free copy of one of our best-selling
products. We found that the majority of our visitors would refer their friends just so they could
get a free copy of the product. Typically, we’d get about 20 percent or more of our sign-ups for
each webinar from those sign-up referrals. That extra 20 percent was free traffic we didn’t
even have to pay for.
ClickFunnels + Hotmail’s growth hack: As we were launching ClickFunnels, we knew that
people would eventually create millions of pages online. To capitalize on this, we attached a
badge on the bottom of each page that says “This Page Made with ClickFunnels.” The badge
was coded with the page owner’s affiliate link, which took the viewer to ClickFunnels. Because
we made every ClickFunnels member an affiliate when they signed up, every ClickFunnels
user had the ability to make affiliate commissions when other people clicked on that badge
and signed up for ClickFunnels. We gave people the ability to turn the badge off, but by
default it was turned on. Over the past five years that we’ve had the badge on our members’
pages, we’ve added over 10,000 members and currently make over $1,000,000 per month in
recurring revenue (over $12 million per year) from that one growth hack.
Each of these growth hacks that we have implemented into our funnels have been tiny little
changes that produced huge results. We’ve had others that we’ve tested that didn’t have a big
enough impact to report here, but I wanted to tell you the stories of the more successful ones
so that you’ll start noticing them as you’re going through other people’s sales processes. As a
funnel hacker, you should be closely watching the sign-up processes through this growth-
hacking lens. See the creative things people are doing that you can model inside your funnels,
and then test the ones that you like.


--- PAGINA 173 ---

This is a marketing game of hunting for buried treasure. Just think, that one tiny badge we
placed on our members’ pages, almost as an afterthought, pays us over $12 million per year.
Each of these little butterflies, growth hacks, or whatever you want to call them, has the
ability to change the metrics of your company forever. Start looking at marketing and traffic
as a game, and keep your eyes open for the next million-dollar hack that’s right in front of
your face!


--- PAGINA 174 ---

CONCLUSION
TYING IT ALL BACK TOGETHER
I know that this book hasn’t been light reading. Unlike most books on traffic that focus on one
platform or one strategy, I didn’t want to just give you a tactic that only worked today and
maybe not tomorrow. I wanted to give you a framework that you could use to get traffic from
any platform, today, tomorrow, and forever. My goal wasn’t to give you a fish; my goal was to
teach you how to fish, and I hope I did just that.
This book is the final book in my Secrets trilogy. For some of you, this will have been the
first book of mine that you’ve read because traffic was the thing you felt you were missing
most in your company. Traffic is just one part of the equation, though. If the traffic you’re
sending into your funnels from the strategies in this book isn’t working, then you typically
either have a funnel strategy problem (that can be diagnosed and cured with the information
inside DotCom Secrets) or you have a conversion problem (which can be solved by mastering
the concepts inside Expert Secrets). Using these three books together will help you to have a
more holistic approach to your online digital marketing strategy.
Now that you’ve finished the book, you’re probably asking yourself, “What should I do
next?” This book was created to be like a playbook that you don’t just read once, but one that
you can reference over and over again. Each concept builds on the one before it, and after you
master it in one platform, you can layer on another platform as you work toward complete
conversation domination.
For right now, though, this is what I recommend you do while these ideas and concepts are
still at the top of your mind:
Decide on who you really want to serve. If you really want to fill your funnels with your
dream customers, you have to know and understand them better than they understand
themselves.
Pick the platform you want to publish on first. This will probably be the platform that you
personally spend the most time on now, because you’ll understand how to communicate
in the unique language of that platform the best.
Build your Dream 100 list of the people who have already congregated your dream
customers on this platform.
Start digging your well with your Dream 100. Figure out ways to serve them and start
working your way in.
At the same time, learn the tactics of how you can buy your way in on that platform.
This is where you should start and focus 100 percent of your energy until your funnel has hit
the Two Comma Club, meaning it’s made at least $1 million. At that point, layer on a second
platform and then a third. With every dollar you make online, reinvest a big percentage of
your profits back into advertising. Finally, don’t stop. Traffic is the lifeblood of any company,
and consistent lead flow is the secret to a healthy business.
Every day, look at ways that you can give yourself a raise. Ask yourself: “How can I get more
traffic?” “Who can I connect with on my Dream 100 today?” “What new integration
opportunities are there?” “Are there new people whom I can add to my Dream 100?” “How can
I get them to become an affiliate?” “What can I do to incentivize them to promote?” “How can
I get them to promote more often?”
All these questions stem from my primary question of “How can I give myself a raise every
day?” Ask that question, and flip through the pages of DotCom Secrets, Expert Secrets, and
this book to find your answers. These playbooks weren’t created based on ideas but rather on
battle-tested principles that I discovered after spending over 15 years in the trenches. These
are the ideas that stuck and that work consistently.
I hope that you can use these secrets to find more of your dream customers and serve them
at your highest level. They are waiting for you to find them so you can change their lives. If
you focus on that, your business will become a catalyst of change for people in their lives, and
that’s the real purpose behind business.


--- PAGINA 175 ---

Thank you for allowing me to serve you through these pages and this series. It’s truly been
an honor, and I can’t wait to see what you do with the frameworks that you’ve learned. Come
hit me up on any of the social media platforms, say hi, and please share with me how these
“secrets” have changed your life.
Thanks,
Russell Brunson
P.S. Don’t forget, you’re just one funnel away . . .


--- PAGINA 176 ---

ENDNOTES
Foreword
1. Costner, Kevin. Field of Dreams. DVD. Directed by Phil Alden Robinson. Los Angeles:
Gordon Company, 1989.
Introduction
2. Downey, Jr., Robert. Avengers: Infinity War. DVD. Directed by Anthony Russo and Joe
Russo. Los Angeles: Marvel Studios, 2018.
SECTION ONE
Secret #I
3. Collier, Robert. The Robert Collier Letter Book. Robert Collier Publishing Inc., 1989.
4. Newman, Lily Hay. “America’s First TV Ad Cost $9 for 9 Seconds.” Slate. July 1, 2016, https
://slate.com/business/2016/07/the-first-legal-tv-commercial-aired-on-july-1-1941-for-bulova-
watch-co-watch-it.html.
Secret #2
5. Holmes, Chet. The Ultimate Sales Machine. Penguin Publishing Group, 2008.
6. Bilyeu, Tom. August 4, 2016. “Tom Bilyeu on Building a Unicorn.” Podcast audio. Foundr. ht
tps://foundr.com/tom-bilyeu-quest-nutrition.
7. Derricks, Dana. Dream 100. Self-published. www.dream100book.com.
8. Tiku, Nitasha. “What’s Not Included in Facebook’s ‘Download Your Data.’” Wired online.
April 23, 2018, www.wired.com/story/whats-not-included-in-facebooks-download-your-data.
Secret #4
9. Mackay, Harvey. Dig Your Well Before You’re Thirsty. The Crown Publishing Group, 1999.
Secret #5
10. Blau, John. “eBay Buys Skype for $2.6 Billion.” PCWorld. September 12, 2005, www.pcworl
d.com/article/122516/article.html.
11. Rusli, Evelyn M. “Facebook Buys Instagram for $1 Billion.” The New York Times online.
April 9, 2012, http://web.archive.org/web/20200303093402/https://dealbook.nytimes.com/2
012/04/09/facebook-buys-instagram-for-1-billion/.
Secret #6
12. Frey, David. “Follow-Up Marketing: How to Win More Sales with Less Effort.” Business
Know-How. January 11, 2017, www.businessknowhow.com/marketing/less_effort.htm.
13. Litman, Mike. Presentation at Big Seminar, Atlanta, GA, 2005. www.generatorsoftware.co
m/transcription/bigsem5/MLitman.doc.
14. Kennedy, Dan. “The Most Important Question You Should Ask When Advertising.” Dan
Kennedy’s Magnetic Marketing. February 26, 2013, https://nobsinnercircle.com/blog/advert
ising/the-most-important-question-you-should-ask-when-advertising.
Secret #7
15. Spiegel, Danny. “Today in TV History: Bill Clinton and His Sax Visit Arsenio.” TV Insider
online. June 3, 2015, www.tvinsider.com/2979/rerun-bill-clinton-on-arsenio-hall.
16. Celebrity Apprentice, “Walking Papers, Parts 1 and 2,” NBC, April 1, 2012.
17. Vaynerchuk, Gary. Presentation at Traffic & Conversion Summit, San Diego, CA, 2016.
18. Durmonski, Ivaylo, Lisa Parmley, Mohit Pawar, and Prashant Pillai. “Endure Long Enough
to Get Noticed.” Nathan Barry. February 18, 2019, https://nathanbarry.com/endure.
19. Vaynerchuk, Gary. “Document, Don’t Create: Creating Content That Builds Your Personal
Brand.” GaryVaynerchuk.com. December 2, 2016, www.garyvaynerchuk.com/creating-conte
nt-that-builds-your-personal-brand.
20. Barrymore, Drew, and David Arquette. Never Been Kissed. DVD. Directed by Raja Gosnell.
Los Angeles: Fox 2000 Pictures, 1999.


--- PAGINA 177 ---

SECTION TWO
Secret #10
21. Wikipedia contributors. “Timeline of Instagram.” Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia.
Accessed September 27, 2019, https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Inst
agram&oldid=916307088.
22. Smith, Kit. “49 Incredible Instagram Statistics You Need to Know.” Brandwatch. May 7,
2019. www.brandwatch.com/blog/instagram-stats.
23. Hartmans, Avery and Rob Price. “Instagram Just Reached 1 Billion Users.” Business
Insider online. June 20, 2018, www.businessinsider.com/instagram-monthly-active-users-1-b
illion-2018-6.
24. Rusli, Evelyn. “Facebook Buys Instagram for $1 Billion.” The New York Times online. April
9, 2012, http://web.archive.org/web/20200303093402/https://dealbook.nytimes.com/2012/0
4/09/facebook-buys-instagram-for-1-billion/.
25. Shinal, John. “Mark Zuckerburg Couldn’t Buy Snapchat Years Ago, And Now He’s Close to
Destroying The Company.” CNBC online. July 12, 2017, www.cnbc.com/2017/07/12/how-ma
rk-zuckerberg-has-used-instagram-to-crush-evan-spiegels-snap.html.
Secret #11
26. “Then and Now: A History of Social Networking Sites.” CBS News online. Accessed
September 26, 2019, www.cbsnews.com/pictures/then-and-now-a-history-of-social-networki
ng-sites.
27. Patrizio, Andy. “ICQ, The Original Instant Messenger, Turns 20.” Network World.
November 18, 2016, www.networkworld.com/article/3142451/icq-the-original-instant-messe
nger-turns-20.html.
28. Noyes, Dan. “Top 20 Valuable Facebook Statistics - Updated September 2019.” Zephoria
Digital Marketing. Accessed September 26, 2019, https://zephoria.com/top-15-valuable-face
book-statistics.
29. Tiku, Nitasha. “What’s Not Included in Facebook’s ‘Download Your Data.’” Wired online.
April 23, 2018, www.wired.com/story/whats-not-included-in-facebooks-download-your-data.
30. “Facebook Unveils Facebook Ads.” Facebook Newsroom. November 6, 2007, https://newsr
oom.fb.com/news/2007/11/facebook-unveils-facebook-ads.
31. Vaynerchuk, Gary. Jab, Jab, Jab, Right Hook. HarperCollins Publishing, 2013.
32. Constine, Josh. “Facebook Launches Messenger Platform with Chatbots.” TechCrunch.
April 12, 2016, https://techcrunch.com/2016/04/12/agents-on-messenger.
Secret #12
33. McAlone, Nathan. “The True Story Behind Google’s Hilarious First Name: BackRub.”
Business Insider online. October 6, 2015, www.businessinsider.com/the-true-story-behind-g
oogles-first-name-backrub-2015-10.
34. Soulo, Tim. “Google PageRank Is NOT Dead: Why It Still Matters.” SEO (Blog). August 6,
2019, https://ahrefs.com/blog/google-pagerank.
35. “On-Page Ranking Factors.” MOZ. Accessed September 26, 2019, https://moz.com/learn/se
o/on-page-factors.
36. “Panda, Penguin and Hummingbird: Google Algorithm Zoo Explained.” Avocado SEO.
November 11, 2016, https://avocadoseo.com/panda-penguin-hummingbird-google-algorithm
-zoo-explained.
37. Schachinger, Kristine. “Everything You Need to Know About the Google ‘Fred’ Update.”
Search Engine Journal. December 19, 2019, https://www.searchenginejournal.com/google-al
gorithm-history/fred-update.
38. Late Show with David Letterman. CBS, 1993–2015.
39. Dean, Brian. “Link Building Case Study: How I Increased My Search Traffic by 110% in 14
Days.” Backlinko. September 2, 2016, https://backlinko.com/skyscraper-technique.
40. Dean, Brian. “Skyscraper Technique: SEO Strategy Checklist.” Backlinko. https://backlinko
.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Backlinko_SkyscraperTechniqueChecklist.pdf.
Secret #13
41. Chi, Clifford. “51 YouTube Stats Every Video Marketer Should Know In 2019.” HubSpot.
February 12, 2019, https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/youtube-stats.
42. Wikipedia contributors. “History of YouTube.” Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Accessed
September 27, 2019, https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=History_of_YouTube&oldid
=916710807.
Secret #14


--- PAGINA 178 ---

43. “Podcast Statistics (2019) – Newest Available Data Infographic.” Music Oomph. Accessed
September 26, 2019, https://musicoomph.com/podcast-statistics.
44. Harbinger, Jordan. March 14, 2018. “Jordan Harbinger Tells Me How He Booked Guests
Like Shaq and Other Podcasting Techniques.” Podcast audio. Mixergy. https://mixergy.com/i
nterviews/the-jordan-harbinger-show-with-jordan-harbinger.
45. Harbinger, Jordan. August 15, 2019. “Introducing The Jordan Harbinger Show.” Podcast
audio. Business Wars. www.stitcher.com/podcast/business-wars/.
Secret #15
46. The Jerry Springer Show. NBC, 1991–2018.
SECTION THREE
Secret #17
47. “Daymond John.” The Shark Group. Accessed September 26, 2019, www.thesharkgroup.co
m/speaking/daymond-john.
48. “Lori Greiner.” LoriGreiner.com. Accessed September 26, 2019, www.lorigreiner.com/meet
-lori.html.
49. “Mark’s Bio.” Mark Cuban Companies. Accessed September 26, 2019, http://markcubanco
mpanies.com/about.html.
Secret #18
50. Ferris, Tim. The 4-Hour Workweek. Potter/Ten Speed/Harmony/Rodale, 2009.
Secret #19
51. Schwartz, Eugene M. Breakthrough Advertising. Boardroom Reports Inc., 1984.
Secret #20
52. Filsaime, Mike. Butterfly Marketing Manuscript 3.0. CreateSpace, 2011.
53. “Gmail Invites Auctioned on eBay.” Geek.com. May 3, 2004, www.geek.com/news/gmail-inv
ites-auctioned-on-ebay-556690.
54. Drew and Arash. “Celebrating Half a Billion Users.” Dropbox. March 7, 2016, https://blog.
dropbox.com/topics/company/500-million.
55. Strickland, Jonathan. “How Facebook Works.” HowStuffWorks. Accessed September 26,
2019. https://computer.howstuffworks.com/internet/social-networking/networks/facebook.ht
m.
56. “PS: I Love You. Get Your Free Email at Hotmail.” TechCrunch online. October 19, 2009, ht
tps://techcrunch.com/2009/10/18/ps-i-love-you-get-your-free-email-at-hotmail.


--- PAGINA 179 ---

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
It was August 17, 2004, and I was on a family vacation at a little lake with my young bride. It
was at a time before smartphones were created and the internet hadn’t made it to the lake
yet. I felt very disconnected from the world. It was really nice.
I had just started my little business a few months earlier and I was still trying to figure out
what I was even doing. Curious if anyone had emailed me or tried to buy something from me
during this trip, I decided I needed to get online and check my email.
Late one afternoon, I took a drive to find somewhere that I could access the internet. I drove
around the small town and finally found a library that was about to close. There was a sign
outside that said they had access to the internet, so I jumped out of my car and snuck in a few
minutes before they asked everyone to leave.
I walked over to one of the computers and logged in to check my email. As I was waiting for
it to load, I started to get nervous, hoping that I hadn’t missed anything important. When the
inbox loaded, I saw about a dozen new messages.
Most were ads, none were from customers, and then I saw one email that stood out. The
subject line said WE DID IT! and the message was from a guy named John Reese, one of the
early internet marketing pioneers that I was following.
We did what? I wondered as I opened the email.
Inside, the email stated, We broke the record we had set out to accomplish. I wasn’t sure
what record he was talking about, so I continued to read.
We set out a goal to make 1 million dollars in a day, with the launch of my new product
called Traffic Secrets. We spent the last few months creating this launch campaign, and today
it went live. In just 18 short hours, we passed our goal of a million dollar in sales!
I was shocked. I sat back in my chair and I read that sentence over and over. A man,
someone who was just a few years older than me, had made more money in a day than I
thought was possible for me to make in my lifetime. If he could do that . . . then what could I
do? What was actually possible?
Then I looked at the name of his product: Traffic Secrets. About that same moment, the
people at the library asked us all to leave because they were closing the doors. After leaving
the library, and for the rest of the week, all I could hear in my head were the words “traffic
secrets.” If he knows how to get enough traffic to his website to make a million dollars in a
day, I had to know his secrets. I knew that traffic was the key that I didn’t have yet, and it was
the missing ingredient that I needed in my business if I wanted it to be successful.
That started a journey that I have been on now for over 15 years: to learn how to get traffic
(i.e., people) into my website and funnels. During this process, I’ve had a chance to learn from
so many people, I could never name them all.
People like Mark Joyner, who taught me the power of an email list and the strategies for how
to grow them; Chet Holmes, who introduced me to the concept of the Dream 100 that became
the framework for how we get traffic today; Dan Kennedy and Jay Abraham, who taught me
the foundation of direct response marketing; and, of course, John Reese, who was the first to
teach me all his traffic secrets on multiple platforms.
Since I started this journey, I’ve had some amazing partners who have taken these ideas and
run with them in different departments of our company. Brent Coppieters and later Dave
Woodward helped to find, recruit, and train our affiliate army that drives more traffic into our
funnels than all other sources combined. John Parkes, who jumped in to learn Facebook Ads
for us a few years ago and eventually built a huge media buying team with people running
paid ads for us on Google, YouTube, Pinterest, Twitter, Snapchat, and more, as well as organic
traffic on all the major platforms. They are testing and innovating these strategies on a scale
that few people have ever even dreamed up.
Each tactic, every strategy, came from conversations I had with other amazing
entrepreneurs and marketers. It would be impossible to remember where every idea came
from, but I’ve tried throughout this book to give credit to the original person I learned each
concept from to the best of my memory.
I also want to thank everyone who helped me to write this book. I don’t think people would
believe the countless hours that go into a project like this until you embark on one yourself. I
want to give a special thanks to Joy Anderson, who helped to edit the book, made sure my


--- PAGINA 180 ---

thoughts and ideas were clear, kept us on schedule, worked with the designers, and helped
take this book across the finish line. Thank you for all the extra time you put in to help make
this a masterpiece.
I have one last special acknowledgment that I want to make. During the Expert Secrets book
launch, I had decided that I was not going to write another book. Literally a few hours later, I
got an email from John Reese asking me if I would like to purchase the brand and the domain
name TrafficSecrets.com. My heart jumped, and instantly I knew that this was the final book
in the series. It was the last essential set of secrets and frameworks that I needed to arm my
entrepreneurs with if they were going to have long-term success with their companies.
I quickly told John yes, and a few days later the domain was in my account and I started to
work on this project. I want to thank John for allowing me to keep the Traffic Secrets legacy
alive. If he wouldn’t have created belief in me 15 years ago that all of this was possible, there
is no way I’d be here in this position now sharing these secrets with you.

